PT	AU	BA	BE	GP	AF	BF	CA	TI	SO	SE	BS	LA	DT	CT	CY	CL	SP	HO	DE	ID	AB	C1	C3	RP	EM	RI	OI	FU	FP	FX	CR	NR	TC	Z9	U1	U2	PU	PI	PA	SN	EI	BN	J9	JI	PD	PY	VL	IS	PN	SU	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	DL	D2	EA	PG	WC	WE	SC	GA	PM	OA	HC	HP	DA	UT
J	Li, BQ; Zheng, SY; Majeed, MT				Li, Biqing; Zheng, ShiYong; Majeed, Muhammad Tariq			Pathways for China&apos;s sustainable energy transition: Examining the effects of exchange rate volatility on renewable energy investment	ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT			English	Article; Early Access						Exchange rate volatility. renewable energy investment	ECONOMIC-GROWTH; FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT; ASYMMETRIC IMPACT; NEXUS; PRICE; COINTEGRATION; CONSUMPTION; EFFICIENCY; INFLATION; EMISSIONS	The relationship between exchange rate volatility (ERV) and other macroeconomic factors, including trade flows, domestic production, inflation, money demand, and economic growth, has remained a topic of a large number of studies in international finance. However, the research question that the past empirics have overlooked is whether ERV has any role in helping an emerging economy like China in its journey toward a renewable energy transition. To answer this question, this analysis intends to scrutinize the nexus between ERV and renewable energy investment (REI) in China over 1991Q1-2021Q4. Moreover, due to the asymmetric behavior of ERV, we have based our analysis on the asymmetric assumption. For analyzing the short and long-run impacts of ERV on REI in China, we used the linear autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) and nonlinear ARDL methods. In the long term, the ARDL model predicts that stricter environmental policies and higher GDP will lead to more investment in renewable energy. As far as the nonlinear model is concerned, the long-term negative change in ERV does not affect REIs, whereas a long-term positive change in ERV reduces such investments. Likewise, unfavorable short-term exchange rate shocks encourage REI while positive short-term shocks discourage such development. Moreover, investment in renewable energy is bolstered by GDP, environmental policy strictness, and financial development, but is dampened by CO2 emissions in the short term in both models. On the basis of these results, we suggest that policymakers should consider implementing measures to stabilize exchange rates to promote investment in renewable energy.	[Li, Biqing] Guilin Univ Elect Technol, Sch Business, Guilin, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zheng, ShiYong] Guilin Univ Elect Technol, Sch Business, Management Sci & Engn, Guilin, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zheng, ShiYong] Nanning Univ, Coll Digital Econ, Nanning, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zheng, ShiYong] Hainan Univ, Management Sch, Haikou, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Majeed, Muhammad Tariq] Quaid I Azam Univ, Sch Econ, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Zheng, ShiYong] Guilin Univ Elect Technol, Sch Business, Guilin, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zheng, ShiYong] Hainan Univ, Management Sch, Haikou 541004, Hainan, Peoples R China	Guilin University of Electronic Technology; Guilin University of Electronic Technology; Nanning University; Hainan University; Quaid I Azam University; Guilin University of Electronic Technology; Hainan University	Zheng, SY (corresponding author), Nanning Univ, Coll Digital Econ, Nanning, Guangxi, Peoples R China.; Zheng, SY (corresponding author), Guilin Univ Elect Technol, Sch Business, Guilin, Guangxi, Peoples R China.; Zheng, SY (corresponding author), Hainan Univ, Management Sch, Haikou 541004, Hainan, Peoples R China.	shiyongzheng123@whu.edu.cn		Majeed, Muhammad Tariq/0000-0001-9374-5025	National Social Foundation of China [20BGL247]; China Postdoctoral Science Foundation [2022M710038]; The 2022 Guangxi Social Science Think Tank Project: Research on the Innovation of Guangxi Rural Revitalization Path from the Perspective of High-Quality Integration of Agriculture, Culture and Tourism [Zkzxkt202325]; The 2022 Ministry of Education University-Industry Cooperation and Collaborative Education Project: Construction of the Civic and Political System and Teaching Team for Marketing Courses [220506038100406]; The 2022 Postdoctoral research project in Hainan Province: research on tourist engagement mechanisms in social media communication for destination brands; Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce -based on social capital perspective [2020AC19034]; The 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization [22FGL024]; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment [2021A033]; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of inter-national students in China-taking Jieyin as an example [2021ZJY1607]; Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route [2021ZJY1612]; The 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions [2022ZJY354]; Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization [2022ZJY1699]; The 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi [JGY2022122]; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode [2022JGB180]; Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management. [JGB202114]; Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology [US20001Y]	National Social Foundation of China; China Postdoctoral Science Foundation(China Postdoctoral Science Foundation); The 2022 Guangxi Social Science Think Tank Project: Research on the Innovation of Guangxi Rural Revitalization Path from the Perspective of High-Quality Integration of Agriculture, Culture and Tourism; The 2022 Ministry of Education University-Industry Cooperation and Collaborative Education Project: Construction of the Civic and Political System and Teaching Team for Marketing Courses; The 2022 Postdoctoral research project in Hainan Province: research on tourist engagement mechanisms in social media communication for destination brands; Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce -based on social capital perspective; The 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of inter-national students in China-taking Jieyin as an example; Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route; The 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions; Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization; The 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode; Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management.; Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology	The National Social Foundation of China (Grant No. 20BGL247) China Postdoctoral Science Foundation. A study on the mechanism of physician engagement behaviour in online medical communities from the perspective of network effects (No. 2022M710038). 2022 Guangxi Social Science Think Tank Project: Research on the Innovation of Guangxi Rural Revitalization Path from the Perspective of High-Quality Integration of Agriculture, Culture and Tourism (No. Zkzxkt202325) 2022 Ministry of Education University-Industry Cooperation and Collaborative Education Project: Construction of the Civic and Political System and Teaching Team for Marketing Courses (No. 220506038100406). 2022 Postdoctoral research project in Hainan Province: research on tourist engagement mechanisms in social media communication for destination brands. Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce -based on social capital perspective (No., 2020AC19034). 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization (No., 22FGL024). 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment (No., 2021A033). 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of inter-national students in China-taking Jieyin as an example (No., 2021ZJY1607). Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route (No. 2021ZJY1612) 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions (No., 2022ZJY354); Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization (No., 2022ZJY1699). 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi. (No., JGY2022122). Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode. (No., 2022JGB180 ). Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management. (No., JGB202114 ). Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform" (No. JGB202114). Doctoral research initiation project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: "Research on the incentive mechanism of knowledge sharing in online medical communities" (No., US20001Y).		70	0	0	0	0	SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD	LONDON	1 OLIVERS YARD, 55 CITY ROAD, LONDON EC1Y 1SP, ENGLAND	0958-305X	2048-4070		ENERG ENVIRON-UK	Energy Environ.	2023 NOV 23	2023										10.1177/0958305X231209417	http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0958305X231209417		NOV 2023	21	Environmental Studies	Social Science Citation Index (SSCI)	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	AD4L3					2024-01-21	WOS:001116508200001
J	[Anonymous]				[Anonymous]			Research on multimorbidity in primary care. Selected abstracts from the EGPRN meeting in Tampere, Finland, 9-12 May 2019 All abstracts of the conference can be found at the EGPRN website: www.egprn.org/page/conference-abstracts	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF GENERAL PRACTICE			English	Meeting								Current primary care in Finland is based on the Primary Health Care Act (1972), which addressed numerous new tasks to all municipalities. All of them had to find a new health centre organization, which provides a wide range of health services, including prevention and public health promotion. Multiple tasks require multiprofessional staff, and thus, the Finnish health centre personnel consisted not only of GPs but of public health nurses, midwives, physiotherapists, psychologists, social workers, dentists, etc. During the next decade, there have been some changes but the idea of multiprofessional structure has remained. According to the QUALICOPC study (2012) Finnish GPs are still co-located with several other healthcare professionals compared to most of the European countries; even compared to other Nordic countries which otherwise have many similarities in their primary healthcare. During the last 10 or 15 years, healthcare providers and researchers have recognized a new challenge: our current systems do not meet the needs of patients with multiple health and social problems-and the proportion of these patients is increasing all the time as the population is getting older. One could suppose that preconditions of handling multimorbidity would be excellent in multiprofessional surroundings like ours, but actually, a person with multiple problems is a challenge there, too. Multiprofessional organization in primary care does not guarantee proper care of patients with multiple diseases, if we do not acknowledge the challenge and revise our systems. We have to develop new ways of collaboration and new models of integrated care. The problematic part is secondary care, which is organized with logic of one medical speciality per visit. In Tampere University Hospital district, we have created a care pathway model, which defines the roles of primary healthcare and secondary care. Nationwide, we have recently started to prepare national guidelines for the care of patients with multimorbidity. What we need more in the future is more research on new practices and models. Background: Most patients with antihypertensive medication do not achieve their blood pressure (BP) target. Several barriers to successful hypertension treatment are well identified but we need novel ways of addressing them. Research question: Can using a checklist improve the quality of care in the initiation of new antihypertensive medication? Methods: This non-blinded, cluster-randomized, controlled study was conducted in eight primary care study centres in central Finland, randomized to function as either intervention (n = 4) or control sites (n = 4). We included patients aged 30-75 years who were prescribed antihypertensive medication for the first time. Initiation of medication in the intervention group was carried out with a nine-item checklist, filled in together by the treating physician and the patient. The treating physician managed hypertension treatment in the control group without a study-specific protocol. Results: In total, 119 patients were included in the study, of which 118 were included in the analysis (n = 59 in the control group, n = 59 in the intervention group). When initiating medication, an adequate BP target was set for 19% of the patients in the control group and for 68% in the intervention group. Shortly after the appointment, only 14% of the patients in the control group were able to remember the adequate BP target, compared with 32% in the intervention group. The use of the checklist was also related to more regular agreement on the next follow-up appointment (64% in the control group vs 95% in the intervention group). Conclusion: Even highly motivated new hypertensive patients in Finnish primary care have significant gaps in their treatment-related skills. The use of a checklist for initiation of antihypertensive medication was related to substantial improvement in these skills. Based on our findings, the use of a checklist might be a practical tool for clinicians initiating new antihypertensive medications. Background: Immediate feedback is underused in the French medical education curriculum, specifically with video-recorded consultation. Research question: The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and the interest in this teaching method as a training and assessment tool in the learning process of general practitioner (GP) trainees. Methods: During the period November 2017 to October 2018, trainees in ambulatory training courses collected quantitative data about recording consultations with a video camera: numbers of recordings, feedback, patients' participation refusals, and information about the learning process and competencies. The trainees' level of satisfaction was measured by means of a questionnaire at the end of their traineeship. Results: Sixty-seven trainees were recruited and 44 of them 65.7% actively participated in the study; 607 video recordings and 243 feedback with trainers were performed. Few patients (18.5%) refused the video-recording. Most trainees considered video recording with immediate feedback to be a relevant learning tool. It made it possible for the participants to observe their difficulties and their achievements. 'Relation, communication, patient-centred care' was the most built competency, non-verbal communication, in particular. Time was the main limiting factor of this teaching method. Most trainees were in favour of its generalization in their university course. Conclusion: Video recording with immediate feedback in real-time consultation needs to be adapted to training areas and depends on time and logistics. This teaching method seems to be useful in the development of communication skills. It could lift the barriers of the trainer's physical presence near GP trainees during immediate feedback in real-time consultation. It could help trainees to build their competencies while enhancing the place of immediate feedback in the general practice curriculum. It could also constitute an additional tool for the certification of GP trainees. Background: Perinatal depression has been associated with psychiatric morbidity in mothers and their offspring. This study assessed the prevalence of perinatal depressive symptoms in a large population of women and investigated associations of these symptoms with demographic and clinical factors. Research question: Which factors (including sociodemographic, medical, lifestyle, and laboratory test) are associated with perinatal depression? Methods: All members of Maccabi Health Services who completed the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) during 2015-2016 were included in the study. Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated for associations of sociodemographic, medical, lifestyle, and laboratory test factors with perinatal depressive symptoms, according to a score >10 on the EPDS. Results: Of 27 912 women who filled the EPDS, 2029 (7.3%) were classified as having peripartum depression. In a logistic regression analysis, the use of antidepressant medications, particularly for a period greater than three months, Arab background, current or past smoking, a diagnosis of chronic diabetes and age under 25 years were all associated with increased ORs for perinatal depression; while Orthodox Jewish affiliation, residence in the periphery and higher haemoglobin level were associated with lower ORs. Incidences of depression were 17.4% in women with a history of antidepressant medication, 16% among women with diabetes, and 11.8% among current smokers. Conclusion: Several demographic, medical, and lifetime factors were found to be substantially more prevalent among women with symptoms of perinatal depression than those without. Encouraging women to complete the EPDS during and following pregnancy may help identify women in need of support. Background: Regulating the quality and effectiveness of the work of general practitioners is essential for a sound healthcare system. In the Republic of Macedonia this is regulated by the Health Insurance Fund through a system of penalties/sanctions. Research question: The goal of this study is to evaluate the types and effectiveness of the sanctions used on primary care practitioners. Methods: This is a quantitative research study for which we used an anonymous survey with 18 questions. This survey was distributed to 443 randomly selected general practitioners from different parts of Macedonia and 438 of them responded. For the quantitative data, we used the Pearson's chi-squared test, correlation and descriptive statistics. Part of the survey is qualitative, consisting of comments and opinions of the general practitioners. Results: From the participants, 336 were female and 102 were male. The doctors' gender was not associated with sanctioning. Most general practitioners were in the age categories of 30-39 and 40-49 years. The participants' age had a significant influence on sanctioning-older doctors were sanctioned more frequently. Out of 438 participants, 33.3% were specialists in family medicine and 66.7% general practitioners. Specialists in family medicine were sanctioned significantly more frequently than general practitioners. Doctors that worked in the hospital or 19 km from the nearest hospital were significantly more frequently sanctioned. The three most common reasons for sanctions were financial consumption of prescriptions and referrals above the agreed amount, higher rate of sick leaves and/or justification of sick leaves and unrealized preventative goals or education. 'Financial sanction by scale' was the most common type of sanction: 49.8% of participants. Doctors who followed the guidelines, but who were exposed to violence were sanctioned significantly more frequently. Conclusion: We can observe that age, speciality, the distance of the workplace from the nearest hospital and violence influence sanctioning. Background: Biases are major barriers to external validity of studies, reducing evidence. Among these biases, the definition and the reality of the Hawthorne effect (HE) (or observation bias) remains controversial. According to McCambridge in a review from 2013, the Hawthorne effect is a behaviour change occurring when the subject is being observed during a scientific study. This effect would be multifactorial, and he suggests the term 'effects of research participation.' However, the reviewed studies were conflicting and evidence is sparse. Research question: We updated McCambridge's review to actualize the definition of the HE. Methods: McCambridge's most recent article dated back to January 3, 2012. We focused on the articles published between January 1, 2012 and August 10, 2018 searching Medline. We used the sole keyword 'Hawthorne Effect.' The search was filtered based on the dates, the availability of an abstract and the languages English and French. We included articles defining or evaluating the HE. Articles citing the effect without defining it or irrelevant to the topic were excluded. Two independent readers searched and analysed the articles. Discrepancies were solved by consensus. Results: Out of 106 articles, 42 articles were included. All the articles acknowledged an observation bias, considered as significant or not, depending on the population (education, literacy), the methods and the variable of interest. It was a psychological change, limited in time. The HE was defined as a change of behaviour related to direct or indirect observation of the subjects or the investigators, to their previous selection and commitment in the study (written agreement) and to social desirability. Despite observations, articles were conflicting. Some do confirm the existence of the HE, others deny it. Meta-analysis is ongoing. Conclusion: No formal consensus regarding the definition of the effect has been reached so far. However, the authors agree on its implication as an experimental artefact. Background: Polypharmacy and multimorbidity are on the rise. Consequently, general practitioners (GPs) treat an increasing number of multimorbid patients with polypharmacy. To limit negative health outcomes, GPs should search for inappropriate medication intake in such patients. However, systematic medication reviews are time-consuming. Recent eHealth tools, such as the 'systematic tool to reduce inappropriate prescribing' (STRIP) assistant, provide an opportunity for GPs to get support when conducting such medication reviews. Research question: Can the STRIP assistant as electronic decision support help GPs to optimize medication appropriateness in older, multimorbid patients with polypharmacy? Methods: This cluster randomized controlled trial is conducted in 40 Swiss GP practices, each recruiting 8-10 patients aged >= 65 years, with >= 3 chronic conditions and >= 5 chronic medications (320 patients in total). We compare the effectiveness of using the STRIP assistant for optimizing medication appropriateness to usual care. The STRIP assistant is based on the STOPP/START criteria (version 2) and, for this trial, it is implemented in the Swiss eHealth setting where some GPs already share routine medical data from their electronic medical records in a research database (FIRE). Patients are followed-up for 12 months and the change in medication appropriateness is the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes are the numbers of falls and fractures, quality of life, health economic parameters, patients' willingness to deprescribe as well as implementation barriers and enablers for GPs when using the STRIP assistant. Results: Patient recruitment started in December 2018. This presentation focuses on the study protocol and the challenges faced when testing this new software in Swiss primary care. Conclusion: Finding out whether the STRIP assistant is an effective tool and beneficial for older and multimorbid patients, who are usually excluded from trials, will have an impact on the coordination of chronic care for multimorbid patients in Swiss primary care in this new eHealth environment. Background: Workplace violence (WPV) towards healthcare staff is becoming a common problem in different healthcare settings worldwide. Moreover, the prevalence is 16 times higher than in other professions. How often it happened towards young doctors working as general practitioners (GPs) at the beginning of their careers has been rarely studied. Research question: To investigate the frequency and forms of WPV, experienced by the young Croatian GPs from their patients, and violence reporting pattern to the competent institutions. Methods: The cross-sectional study was carried out on 74 GP residents, during their postgraduate study in family medicine in May 2018. A specially designed anonymous questionnaire, developed by Association of Family Physicians of South Eastern Europe, was used to investigate the prevalence and forms of WPV, the narrative description of the traumatic event itself and the process of reporting it. Results: The response rate was 91.9%, female 87%, the median of years working as a GP was 3.5 years. Most of the residents were working in an urban practice (63%), others in the rural and the suburban once (27%, 10%). All GP residents experienced patients' and caregivers' violent behaviour directed towards them. High-intensity violence (e.g. physical violence, sexual harassment) was experienced by 44%, middle intensity (e.g. intimidation, visual sexual harassment) by 84% while all residents experienced verbal violence. Only 13.2% residents reported WPV to the competent institutions. Most of GP residents reported the appearance of the new form of violence: the one over the internet. Conclusion: The high prevalence of all types of violence towards young Croatian doctors is worrisome, as is the fact that violent acts are seldom reported to the competent institutions. Those alarming facts could become a threat to GPs career choosing. Background: About 50% of patients adhere to chronic therapy in France. Improving adherence should improve their care. Identifying the patient's difficulties in taking medication is complex for the physician, because there is no gold standard for measuring adherence to medications. How can the general practitioner in his/her practice identify patient compliance? Research question: Analyse studies that develop or validate scales used to estimate adherence in primary care. Methods: A systematic review of the literature from PubMed, the Cochrane Library and PsycINFO databases. The search terms used were the MeSH terms (or adapted to the database's vocabulary): questionnaire, compliance and primary care. All articles were retained whatever the language of writing. Selection criteria were: assessment of the development, validation or reliability of one or more compliance scales; taking place in primary care. One reviewer screened titles, which included the term adherence then abstracts and full text. Only articles evaluating the development, validity or reliability of a primary care adherence rating scale were included in analysis. Results: In total 1022 articles were selected and 18 articles were included. Seventeen adherence scales were identified in primary care, most of which targeted a single pathology, especially hypertension. The most cited scale is the MMAS Morisky medication adherence scale. Three scales were developed for patients with multiple chronic diseases. One scale was developed for patients older than 65 years-the Strathclyde compliance risk assessment tool (SCRAT)-and two scales were developed for adult patients whatever their age-the instrument developed by Sidorkiewicz et al., and the DAMS, diagnostic adherence to medication scale. Conclusion: Two scales have been developed and validated in primary care to assess patient adherence with multiple chronic diseases: the DAMS and the instrument developed by Sidorkiewicz et al. A simple, reliable, reproducible primary care scale would assess the impact of actions developed to improve adherence: motivational interviewing, patient therapeutic education, and the ASALeE protocol. Background: Multimorbidity prevalence increases with age while declining quality of life (QoL) is one of its major consequences. Research question: The study aims to: (1) Assess the relationship between increasing number of diseases and QoL. (2) Identify the most frequently occurring patterns of diseases and how they relate to QoL. (3) Observe how these associations differ across different European countries and regions. Methods: Cross-sectional data analysis performed on wave six of the population-based survey of health, ageing and retirement in Europe (SHARE) (n = 68 231). Data were collected in 2015 among population 50+ years old in 17 European countries and Israel. Multimorbidity is defined as the co-occurrence of two or more chronic conditions. Conditions were self-declared and identified through an open-end questionnaire containing 17 prelisted conditions plus conditions added by participants. Control, autonomy, self-realization and pleasure questionnaire (CASP-12v) was used to evaluate QoL. Association between increasing number of diseases and QoL was assessed with linear regression. Factor analysis is being conducted to identify patterns of diseases to evaluate their impact on QoL further. Multilevel analysis will take into account differences between countries and regions. Confounding was searched with directed acyclic graph (DAG) method and included age, sex, education, socio-economic status, behavioural habits, social support and healthcare parameters. Results: Participants (49.09%) had two or more diseases. Maximum number of diseases per person was 13, mean number was 1.9. Unadjusted preliminary analysis showed that on average QoL decreases by -1.27 (95%CI: -1.29, -1.24) with each added new condition across Europe. The decline appears to be the steepest in Spain, -1.61 (95%CI: -1.71, -1.51), and the least so in Israel, -0.67 (95%CI: -0.82, -0.52). Conclusion: Ongoing analysis will identify disease patterns, which may have the highest impact on QoL, as well as to elucidate the role of confounders in the relationship between increasing number of diseases and disease patterns with QoL. Background: The burden and preventive potential of disease is typically estimated for each non-communicable disease (NCD) separately but NCDs often co-occur, which hampers reliable quantification of their overall burden and joint preventive potential in the population. Research questions: What is the lifetime risk of developing any NCD? Which multimorbidity clusters of NCDs cause the greatest burden? To what extent do three key shared risk factors, namely smoking, hypertension and being overweight, influence this risk, life-expectancy and NCD-multimorbidity? Methods: Between 1990 and 2012 we followed NCD-free participants aged >= 45 years at baseline from the Dutch prospective Rotterdam study for incidents of stroke, heart disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, cancer, and neurodegenerative disease. We quantified (co-)occurrence and remaining lifetime risk of NCDs in a competing risk framework, and studied the effects of smoking, hypertension, and being overweight on lifetime risk and life expectancy. Results: During follow-up of 9061 participants, 814 participants were diagnosed with stroke, 1571 with heart disease, 625 with diabetes, 1004 with chronic respiratory disease, 1538 with cancer, and 1065 with neurodegenerative disease. Among those, 1563 participants (33.7%) were diagnosed with multiple diseases. The lifetime risk of any NCD from the age of 45 onwards was 94.0% (95%CI: 92.9-95.1) for men and 92.8% (95%CI: 91.8-93.8) for women. Absence of shared risk factors was associated with a 9.0-year delay (95%CI: 6.3-11.6) in the age at onset of any NCD. Furthermore, overall life expectancy for participants without risk factors was 6.0 years (95%CI: 5.7-7.9) longer than those with these risk factors. Participants without these risk factors spent 21.6% of their remaining lifetime with NCDs, compared to 31.8% for those with risk factors. Conclusion: Nine out of 10 individuals aged 45 years and older will develop at least one NCD during their remaining lifetime. A third was diagnosed with multiple NCDs during follow-up. Absence of three common shared risk factors related to compression of morbidity of NCDs. Background: This study examined if using electronic reminders increases the rate of diagnosis recordings in the patient chart system following visits to a general practitioner (GP). The impact of electronic reminders was studied in the primary care of a Finnish city. Research question: How effective is the reminder of the information system in improving the diagnostic level of primary care? Which is better and how: financial incentives or reminders? Methods: This was an observational retrospective study based on a before-and-after design and was carried out by installing an electronic reminder in the computerized patient chart system to improve the recording of diagnoses during GP visits. The quality of the recorded diagnoses was observed before and after the intervention. The effect of this intervention on the recording of diagnoses was also studied. Results: Before intervention, the level of recording diagnoses was about 40% in the primary care units. After four years, the recording rate had risen to 90% (p < 0.001). The rate of change in the recording of diagnoses was highest during the first year of intervention. In the present study, most of the visits concerned mild respiratory infections, elevated blood pressure, low back pain and type II diabetes. Conclusion: An electronic reminder improved the recording of diagnoses during the visits to GPs. The present intervention produced data, which reflects the distribution of diagnoses in real clinical life in primary care and thus provides valid data about the public. Background: Child abuse is widespread, occurs in all cultures and communities and remains undiscovered in 90% of the cases. In total, 80% of reported child abuse concerns emotional ill-treatment. In the Netherlands, at least 3% (118 000) of children are victims of child abuse resulting in 50 deaths each year. Only 1-3% of abuse cases are reported by general practitioners (GPs) to the Child Protective Services agency (CPS). To explain this low reporting rate, we examined GPs' experiences with child abuse. Research question: How does the suspicion of child abuse arise in GPs' diagnostic reasoning? How do they act upon their suspicion and what kind of barriers do they experience in their management? Methods: In total 26 GPs (16 female) participated in four focus groups. We used purposive sampling to include GPs with different levels of experience in rural and urban areas spread over the Netherlands. We used NVivo for thematic content analysis. Results: Suspected child abuse arose based on common triggers and a gut feeling that 'something is wrong here'. GPs acted upon their suspicion by gathering more data by history taking and physical examination. They often found it challenging to decide whether a child was abused because parents, despite their good intentions, may lack parenting skills and differ in their norms and values. GPs reported clear signs of sexual abuse and physical violence to CPS. However, in less clear-cut cases they followed-up and built a supporting network around the family. Most GPs highly valued the patient-doctor relationship while recognizing the risk of pushing boundaries. Conclusion: A low child abuse reporting rate by GPs to CPS does not mean a low detection rate. GPs use patients' trust in their doctor to improve a child's situation by involving other professionals. Background: The number of people suffering from multiple chronic conditions, multimorbidity, is rising. For society, multimorbidity is known to increase healthcare expenses through more frequent contacts, especially with the primary sector. For the individual, an increasing number of medical conditions are associated with lower quality of life (QoL). However, there is no statistically validated condition-specific patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) for the assessment of QoL among patients with multimorbidity. A validated PROM is essential in order to measure effect in intervention studies for this patient group. Research question: (1) To identify items covering QoL among patients with multimorbidity in a Danish context. (2) To develop and validate a PROM for assessment of QoL among patients with multimorbidity. (3) To utilize the final PROM in a large group of patients with multimorbidity to measure their QoL when living with different combinations and severity of multimorbidity. Methods: Phase 1: qualitative individual and focus group interviews with patients with multimorbidity to identify relevant QoL items. Phase 2: validation of the items through a draft questionnaire sent by email to around 200-400 patients with multimorbidity. Phase 3: psychometric validation of the draft questionnaire securing items with the highest possible measurement quality. Phase 4: assessment of QoL among approximately 2000 patients with multimorbidity from the Danish Lolland-Falster study. Results: There are no results yet. Currently, the interview guide is under development. Conclusion: Despite the rising number of patients with multimorbidity and the known inverse relationship between a patient's number of medical conditions and their quality of life, there is no statistically validated condition-specific PROM for assessment of QoL among this group. Our aim is that this project's developed and validated PROM will be used in future intervention studies as a valid measure of QoL among patients with multimorbidity. Background: Through a systematic review of the literature and qualitative research across Europe, the European General Practitioners Research Network (EGPRN) has designed and validated a comprehensive definition of multimorbidity. It is a concept considering all the biopsychosocial conditions of a patient. This concept encompasses more than 50 variables and is consequently difficult to use in primary care. Consideration of adverse outcomes (such as death or acute hospitalization) could help to distinguish which variables could be risk factors of decompensation within the definition of multimorbidity. Research question: Which criteria in the EGPRN concept of multimorbidity could detect outpatients at risk of death or acute hospitalization (i.e. decompensation) in a primary care cohort at 24-months of follow-up? Methods: Primary care outpatients (131) answering to EGPRN's multimorbidity definition were included by GPs, during two periods of inclusion in 2014 and 2015. At 24 months follow-up, the status 'decompensation' or 'nothing to report' was collected. A logistic regression following a Cox model was performed to achieve the survival analysis and to identify potential risk factors. Results: At 24 months follow-up, 120 patients were analysed. Three different clusters were identified. Forty-four patients, representing 36.6% of the population, had either died or been hospitalized more than seven consecutive days. Two variables were significantly associated with decompensation: Number of GPs encounters per year (HR: 1.06; 95%CI: 1.03-1.10, p <0.001), and total number of diseases (HR: 1.12; 95%CI: 1.03-1.33; P = 0.039). Conclusion: To prevent death or acute hospitalization in multimorbid outpatients, GPs may be alert to those with high rates of GP encounters or a high number of illnesses. These results are consistent with others in medical literature. Background: A study of casual versus causal comorbidity in family medicine in three practice populations from the Netherlands, Malta and Serbia. Research question: (1) What is the observed comorbidity of the 20 most common episodes of care in three countries? (2) How much of the observed comorbidity is likely to be casual versus causal? Methods: Participating family doctors (FDs) in the Netherlands, Malta and Serbia recorded details of all patient contacts in an episode of care structure using electronic medical records based on the International Classification of Primary Care, collecting data on all elements of the doctor-patient encounter, including the diagnostic labels (episode of care labels, EoCs). Comorbidity was measured using the odds ratio of both conditions being incident or rest-prevalent in the same patient in one-year data frames, as against not. Results: Comorbidity in family practice expressed as odds ratios between the 41 most prevalent (joint top 20) episode titles in the three populations. Specific associations were explored in different age groups to observe the changes in odds ratios with increasing age as a surrogate for a temporal or biological gradient. Conclusion: After applying accepted criteria for testing the causality of associations, it is reasonable to conclude that most of the observed primary care comorbidity is casual. It would be incorrect to assume causal relationships between co-occurring diseases in family medicine, even if such a relationship might be plausible or consistent with current conceptualizations of the causation of disease. Most observed comorbidity in primary care is the result of increasing illness diversity. Background: The concept of therapeutic alliance emerged in the beginning of the twentieth century and came from psychoanalysis. This notion was then extended to the somatic field and aims to replace the paternalistic model in the doctor-patient relationship. The EGPRN TATA group selected the WAI SR as the most reliable and reproducible scale to assess therapeutic alliance. To use it within Europe, it was necessary to translate it into most European languages. The following study aimed to assess the linguistic homogeneity of five of these translations. Research question: Are the translations of the WAI SR homogeneous between Spain, Poland, Slovenia, France and Italy? Methods: Forward-backward translations were achieved in five participating countries (Spain, Poland, France, Slovenia and Italy). Using a Delphi procedure, a global homogeneity check was then performed by comparing the five backward translations during a physical meeting involving GP teachers/researchers from many European countries; the heterogeneity of the participants' origins was a token of reliability. Results: In the assessment of the five translations, 107 experts participated. A consensus was obtained in one to two Delphi rounds for each. During the 'homogeneity check,' some discrepancies were noted with the original version and were discussed with the local teams. This last stage permitted to highlight cultural discrepancies and real translation issues and to correct if needed. Conclusion: Five homogeneous versions of the WAI SR are now available in five European languages. They will be helpful to evaluate therapeutic alliance at different levels: for GPs in daily practice, for students during the initial and continuous training, and for further research in these five countries. Background: The patient enablement instrument (PEI) is an established patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) that reflects the quality of a GP appointment. It is a six-item questionnaire, addressed to the patient immediately after a consultation. Research question: The study aimed to evaluate whether a single-item measure (the Q1), based on the PEI, or a single question extracted from the PEI itself (the Q2) could replace the PEI when measuring patient enablement among Finnish healthcare centre patients. Methods: The study design included (1) a pilot study with brief interviews with the respondents, (2) a questionnaire study before and after a single appointment with a GP, and (3) a telephone interview two weeks after the appointment. The correlations between the measures were examined. The sensitivity, specificity and both positive and negative predictive values for the Q1 and the Q2 were calculated, with different PEI score cut-off points. Results: Altogether 483 patients with completed PEIs were included in the analyses. The correlations between the PEI and the Q1 or the Q2 were 0.48 and 0.84, respectively. Both the Q1 and the Q2 had high sensitivity and negative predictive value in relation to patients with lower enablement scores. The reliability coefficients were 0.24 for the Q1 and 0.76 for the Q2. Conclusion: The Q2 seems to be a valid and reliable way to measure patient enablement. The Q1 seems to be less correlated with the PEI, but it also has high negative predictive value in relation to low enablement scores. Multimorbidity challenges existing healthcare organization and research, which remains disease and single-condition focused. Basic science approaches to multimorbidity have the potential to identify important shared mechanisms by which diseases we currently think of as distinct might arise, but there is a pressing need for more applied and health services research to understand better and manage multimorbidity now. There are several recent clinical guidelines, which make recommendations for managing multimorbidity or related issues for patients such as polypharmacy and frailty. However, the evidence base underpinning these recommendations is often weak, and these guidelines, therefore, also help define a research agenda. A key problem for researchers and health services is that multimorbidity is very heterogeneous, in that 'intermittent low back pain plus mild eczema' presents very different challenges to researchers and health services compared to 'active psychosis plus severe heart failure'. Identifying important but tractable research questions is therefore not always straightforward. This presentation will identify important gaps in the evidence, and illustrate how they might be filled. The focus will be on two areas where there is consensus that better evidence is needed to inform care design and delivery: (1) organizational interventions to implement more coordinated and holistic care; and (2) interventions to improve medicines management in people with multimorbidity and polypharmacy. These illustrate both the potential for imaginative research, but also the scale. Background: The accumulation of multiple chronic diseases (multimorbidity) and multiple prescribed medications (polypharmacy) over time may influence the extent to which an individual maintains health and well-being in later life. Research question: This research aims to describe the patterns (sequence and timing) of multimorbidity and polypharmacy that accumulate over time among primary healthcare patients in Canada. Methods: Data are derived from the Canadian primary care sentinel surveillance network (CPCSSN) electronic medical record (EMR) database that holds >= 1 million longitudinal, de-identified records. Multimorbidity will be identified with 20 categories, cut-off points of >= 2 and >= 3 chronic conditions and the International Classification of Disease (ICD) classification system. Polypharmacy will be identified using the cut-off points of >= 5 and >= 10 medication classes and the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) classification system. Analyses will be conducted using Java and Stata 14.2 software. Results: The prevalence of chronic diseases and prescribed medications will be presented, as well as the patterns that are observed among adults and older adults in Canada. The most frequent patterns (combinations and permutations) of multimorbidity and polypharmacy will be presented, stratified by sex and age category. The relationships with other factors, such as the presence of frailty, disability or increased health service use, will be examined. As well, the methodological challenges to identifying the presence and sequence of multimorbidity and polypharmacy in national, longitudinal data will be discussed. Conclusion: This research will explore the profiles of multimorbidity and polypharmacy in mid- and late-life using a national, longitudinal database. These findings can be used strategically to inform healthcare delivery and to contribute to the understanding of multimorbidity and polypharmacy in the international literature. Reducing the burden of prescribed medications and the harms of polypharmacy are key tasks within the context of multimorbidity. Background: Multimorbidity and polypharmacy have become the norm for general practitioners (GPs). Ideally, GPs search for inappropriate medication and, if necessary, deprescribe. However, it remains challenging to deprescribe given time constraints and little backup from guidelines. Furthermore, barriers and enablers to deprescribing among patients have to be accounted for. Research question: To identify barriers and enablers to deprescribing in older patients with polypharmacy. Methods: We surveyed among patients >70 years with multimorbidity (>2 chronic conditions) and polypharmacy (>4 regular medicines). We invited Swiss GPs to recruit eligible patients, each of whom completed a paper-based survey on demography, medications and chronic conditions. We applied the revised patients' attitudes towards deprescribing (rPATD) questionnaire and added 12 additional questions and two open questions to assess barriers and enablers towards deprescribing. Results: We analysed the first 221 responses received so far and full results will be presented at the conference. Participants were 79.3 years in mean (SD 5.8) and 48% female. Thirty-one percent lived alone, and 85% prepared their medication themselves, all others required help. Seventy-six percent of participants took 5-9 regular medicines and 24% took >= 10 up to 22 medicines. Participants (76%) were willing to deprescribe one or more of their medicines and 78% did not have any negative experience with deprescribing. Age and gender were not associated with their willingness to deprescribe. Important barriers to deprescribing were satisfaction with drugs (96%), long-term drugs (56%) and noticing positive effects when taking them (92%). When it comes to deprescribing, 89% of participants wanted as much information as possible on their medicines. Having a good relationship with their GP was a further key factor to them (85%). Conclusion: Most older adults are willing to deprescribe. They would like to be informed about their medicines and want to discuss deprescribing to achieve shared decision-making with the GP they trust. Background: With growing populations of patients with multimorbidity, general practitioners need insight into which patients in their practice are most in need for person-centred integrated care ('high-need' patients). Using data from electronic primary care medical records to automatically create a list of possible 'high need' patients could be a quick and easy first step to assist GPs in identifying these patients. Research question: Can 'high need' patients with multimorbidity be identified automatically from their primary care medical records? Methods: Pseudonymized medical records of patients with multimorbidity (>= 2 chronic diseases) were analysed. Data was derived from the Nivel primary care database, a large registry containing data routinely recorded in electronic health records. This includes data on healthcare use, health problems and treatment. Logistic regression analysis was conducted to predict outcomes (frequent contact with the general practice, ER visits and unplanned hospital admissions). Predictors were age, sex, healthcare use in the previous year, morbidity and medication use. Results: In total, 245 065 patients with multimorbidity were identified, of which 48% were above the age of 65 and 57% female. More than 42% had five GP contacts in the previous year and 62% used five or more different medications. Frequent contact with the general practice could be reliably predicted using only the number of contacts in the previous year (AUC: 0.82). Adding all other predictors (including specific chronic conditions) only improved the predictive value of the model marginally (AUC: 0.84). Identifying patients with a high risk for ER visits and unplanned hospital admissions proved more difficult (AUC: 0.67 and 0.70, respectively). Conclusion: 'High need' patients with multimorbidity can be automatically selected from primary care medical records using only the number of contacts with the general practice in the previous year. Composing a list of these patients can help GPs to identify those eligible for person-centred integrated care. Background: Chronic diseases usually have a long duration and slow progression and, as a result, they tend to aggregate in multimorbidity patterns (MPs) during the life course and/or due to shared underlying pathophysiological pathways. Knowledge of how MPs progress over time is necessary to develop effective prevention management strategies. Research question: What are the most likely MPs over time? Which longitudinal shifts from one pattern to another occur during follow-up? Methods: A prospective longitudinal study based on electronic health records was conducted during 2012-2016 in Catalonia, Spain. For people aged >= 65 years, we extracted data on demographics and diagnostic codes for chronic diseases (ICD-10). Machine-learning techniques were applied for the identification of disease clusters using fuzzy c-means analysis to obtain initial clusters. To estimate longitudinal MPs and their progression for each individual a hidden Markov model was fitted, estimating: (1) the transition probability matrix between clusters; (2) the initial cluster probability; (3) the most likely trajectory for each individual. The prevalence of disease in each cluster, observed/expected ratios (O/E ratios) and disease exclusivity was determined for each MP. Criteria used to designate cluster: O/E ratio >= 2. Results: In total, 916 619 individuals were included. Ten MPs were identified. The cluster including the most prevalent diseases was designated non-specific (42.0% of individuals). The remaining nine clusters included the following anatomical systems: ophthalmologic and mental diseases (19.3%), osteometabolic (7.9%), cardio-circulatory (6.6%), and others. Most patients, minimum 59.2%, remained in the same cluster during the study period. The highest transitions to the mortality state were observed in the cardio-circulatory (37.1%) and nervous (31.8%) MPs. Conclusion: Ten significant longitudinal MPs were found. The application of sophisticated statistical techniques ideally suited the study of the MPs and allowed for characterization over time. This method is useful to establish a probabilistic evolution of MPs. Background: Quality of life is an essential theme for quantitative surveys in primary care. Treatments and procedures need to be assessed on whether they change patients' quality of life. This has led to the creation of evaluation scales. The purpose of this study was to determine reproducibility and efficiency of 11 previously selected quality of life scales (selected with a systematic review) for the general population. Research question: What is the best possible reproducible and efficient quality of life scale for the general population? Methods: The search was conducted from November 2017 to April 2018 in PubMed and Cochrane databases, according to the PRISMA (preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses) protocol. The inclusion criteria were the psychometric qualities for each of the 11 scales studied. Articles dealing with subpopulations or those not written in IMRAD format were excluded. The collected values were reproducibility and efficiency. Results: Out of 206, 46 selected articles were included. Cronbach's alpha by domain and Pearson's coefficient were the most analysed psychometrics. No valid efficiency data was obtained. The internal consistency was over 0.7 for the SF-36, SF12v2 and EQ-5D scales. The Pearson coefficient was over 0.4 for the SF36v2, SF-12 and SF-12v2 scales. The Cohen's kappa ranged from 0.4 to 0.80 for the EQ-5D questionnaire. Conclusion: No scale is fully validated. Reproducibility values were incomplete (Cronbach's alpha and Pearson's most expressed). No efficiency data was found. The most validated scales are the SF family and the EQ-5D. Researchers and clinicians should be aware of these limitations when choosing a quality of life scale. They should return to the scales' designs to choose the one that underlines the type of quality of life they want to assess as no external validity is available. Background: Previous studies have shown an increased rate of infection among patients with diabetes; however, it is unclear from these studies if the level of HbA1c is correlated with infection. Research question: This study aimed to examine the association between glycaemic control of type 2 diabetes patients and the incidence of infections. Methods: An HMO database was used to identify all DM patients. The first HbA1c test during the period of the study was selected for each patient; then an infection diagnosis was searched in the 60 days that followed the test. We compared the HbA1c test results that were followed by an infection to those that were not. After applying exclusion criteria: having cancer, receiving immunosuppressive medication, undergoing dialysis treatment, anaemia less than 9 mg%, and G6PD deficiency, there remained 33 637 patients in the cohort. The study period was October 2014 to September 2017. The following information was collected: age, gender, socio-economic index, BMI, use of hypoglycaemic and steroid medication in the 90 days before infection, and comorbid conditions (IHD, PVD, CVA, CCF, asthma, COPD, Parkinson's disease, dementia, CRF). Results: In total, 804 patients had an infection within 60 days following an HbA1c test. For cellulitis, cholecystitis, herpes zoster, pneumonia and sinusitis the HbA1c was higher than those patients that had no infection (for cellulitis 7.603 vs 7.243). When factored into logistic regression analysis, we found that other chronic diseases increased the risk of infection between 29 and 60%. Each increase of a gram of HbA1c increased the risk by 8.5%. Use of steroids in the 90 days before the infection increases the chance of infection by 734%. Conclusion: Increasing HbA1c and comorbidity both increase the risk of infection among type 2 diabetics but use of oral or injectable steroids is a much more significant risk factor.					Blondeel, Sofie/AAE-5307-2022; Fazli, Ghazal/AAE-8320-2022; Baldissera, Annalisa/AHD-6334-2022; DSILVA, BROOKE/HCI-4879-2022	hong, zhao/0000-0003-3528-6320					0	1	1	90	946	TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD	ABINGDON	2-4 PARK SQUARE, MILTON PARK, ABINGDON OR14 4RN, OXON, ENGLAND	1381-4788	1751-1402		EUR J GEN PRACT	Eur. J. Gen. Pract.	JUL 3	2019	25	3					164	175		10.1080/13814788.2019.1643166	http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13814788.2019.1643166			12	Primary Health Care; Medicine, General & Internal	Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)	General & Internal Medicine	IR9QF		gold, Green Accepted			2024-01-21	WOS:000481779500010
J	Li, BQ; Amin, A; Nureen, N; Saqib, N; Wang, LY; Rehman, MA				Li, Biqing; Amin, Azka; Nureen, Naila; Saqib, Najia; Wang, Lingyan; Rehman, Mubeen Abdur			Assessing factors influencing renewable energy deployment and the role of natural resources in MENA countries	RESOURCES POLICY			English	Article						Natural resources; Institutional governance; Financial globalization; Renewable energy transition	CONSUMPTION; IMPACT	Governments worldwide are deploying renewable sources as a part of an imperative agenda to overcome the detrimental impacts of climate change and environmental degradation. Although renewable energy contains several benefits, very few researchers have worked on the determinants of renewable energy deployment and the role of natural resources in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries. This research contributes to the prior literature by examining the influence of financial growth, governance, environmental quality, and economic development in MENA countries from 1990 to 2020. For empirical estimation, this study employs the latest econometric approaches: cross-sectional autoregressive distributed lag (CS-ARDL), augmented mean group (AMG), and Westerlund & Edgerton's cointegration. Furthermore, the cross-sectional augmented Im-PesaranShin (CIPS) and cross-sectional augmented Dickey-Fuller (CADF) panel unit root tests are employed to check the stationarity level among variables. The empirical outcome demonstrates that governance, financial growth, the interaction term between financial growth and governance, carbon emissions, and economic development significantly and directly influence renewable energy deployment in MENA countries. As a further step, robustness is checked by employing the AMG estimator. The findings from the AMG estimator verify the robustness of the study's outcomes. Thus, the empirical and robustness results make it clear that all the aforementioned variables play a significant role in renewable energy deployment in the sampled region. The policy consequences of the major efforts are laid out as well coherently and consistently.	[Li, Biqing] Guilin Univ Elect Technol, Sch Elect Engn & Automat, Guilin, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Li, Biqing] RICE Rajamangala Univ Technol, Rattanakosin Int Coll Creat Entrepreneurship, Rattanakosin, Thailand; [Amin, Azka] Hainan Univ, Int Business Sch, Haikou 570228, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Amin, Azka] Univ Tenaga Nas, Inst Energy Policy & Res, Kajang 43000, Malaysia; [Nureen, Naila] North China Elect Power Univ, Sch Econ & Management, Beijing 102206, Peoples R China; [Saqib, Najia] Prince Sultan Univ, Coll Business Adm, Dept Finance, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Wang, Lingyan] Guilin Inst Informat Technol, Guilin, Peoples R China; [Rehman, Mubeen Abdur] Univ Adelaide, Sch Econ & Publ Policy, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia; [Rehman, Mubeen Abdur] ILMA Univ, Sch Business Adm, Karachi 75190, Pakistan	Guilin University of Electronic Technology; Hainan University; Universiti Tenaga Nasional; North China Electric Power University; Prince Sultan University; University of Adelaide	Wang, LY (corresponding author), Guilin Inst Informat Technol, Guilin, Peoples R China.	723729502@qq.com	Saqib, Najia/T-8440-2018	Saqib, Najia/0000-0003-2795-2012; Rehman, Mubeen Abdur/0000-0001-9007-9880	Teaching Reform Project of Guilin University of Electronic and Technology: Teaching Design and Practice of Management Based on the Perspective of Effectiveness Theory; Research on Multidimensional Identification and Longterm Governance Mechanism of Relative Poverty of Farming Households in Border Areas , General Project of the National Social Science Foundation of China; Research on Branding Strategies for High-Quality Agricultural Development in Ethnic Areas of Southwest China under the "Two Mountains" Theory, General Project of the National Social Science Foundation of China; The 20th Five-Year Plan of Guangxi Education Science Project :Research on the Balanced Development of Guangxi Rural Education in the Context of Rural Revitalization Strategy; Teaching Reform Project of Guilin University of Electronic and Technology: Reform and Practice of Digital Transformation and Enhancement of Marketing Majors in the Context of the Construction of a New Business Discipline; China Postdoctoral Science Foundation: A study on the mechanism of physician engagement behaviour in online medical communities from the perspective of network effects [JGB202010]; Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce-based on social capital perspective [20BGL247]; The 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization [21BGL129]; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment [2023B331]; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of international students in China-taking Jieyin as an example [JGA202102]; Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route [2022M710038]; The 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special The Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions [2020AC19034]; Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization [22FGL024]; The 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi [2021A033]; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode [2021ZJY1607]; Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management [2021ZJY1612]; Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform" [2022ZJY354]	Teaching Reform Project of Guilin University of Electronic and Technology: Teaching Design and Practice of Management Based on the Perspective of Effectiveness Theory; Research on Multidimensional Identification and Longterm Governance Mechanism of Relative Poverty of Farming Households in Border Areas , General Project of the National Social Science Foundation of China; Research on Branding Strategies for High-Quality Agricultural Development in Ethnic Areas of Southwest China under the "Two Mountains" Theory, General Project of the National Social Science Foundation of China; The 20th Five-Year Plan of Guangxi Education Science Project :Research on the Balanced Development of Guangxi Rural Education in the Context of Rural Revitalization Strategy; Teaching Reform Project of Guilin University of Electronic and Technology: Reform and Practice of Digital Transformation and Enhancement of Marketing Majors in the Context of the Construction of a New Business Discipline; China Postdoctoral Science Foundation: A study on the mechanism of physician engagement behaviour in online medical communities from the perspective of network effects; Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce-based on social capital perspective; The 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment; The 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of international students in China-taking Jieyin as an example; Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route; The 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special The Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions; Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization; The 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode; Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management; Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform"	This research was supported by the following funds: Teaching Reform Project of Guilin University of Electronic and Technology: Teaching Design and Practice of Management Based on the Perspective of Effectiveness Theory, (JGB202010) ; "Research on Multidimensional Identification and Longterm Governance Mechanism of Relative Poverty of Farming Households in Border Areas" (Grant No. 20BGL247) , General Project of the National Social Science Foundation of China; Research on Branding Strategies for High-Quality Agricultural Development in Ethnic Areas of Southwest China under the "Two Mountains" Theory, General Project of the National Social Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 21BGL129) ; The 20th Five-Year Plan of Guangxi Education Science Project :Research on the Balanced Development of Guangxi Rural Education in the Context of Rural Revitalization Strategy" (2023B331) ; Teaching Reform Project of Guilin University of Electronic and Technology: Reform and Practice of Digital Transformation and Enhancement of Marketing Majors in the Context of the Construction of a New Business Discipline" (JGA202102) . China Postdoctoral Science Foundation: A study on the mechanism of physician engagement behaviour in online medical communities from the perspective of network effects (No. 2022M710038) . Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce-based on social capital perspective (No., 2020AC19034) . 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization (No., 22FGL024) . 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment (No., 2021A033) . 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of international students in China-taking Jieyin as an example (No., 2021ZJY1607) . && Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route (No. 2021ZJY1612) 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions (No., 2022ZJY354) ; && Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization (No., 2022ZJY1699) .2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi. (No., JGY2022122) . Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode. (No., 2022JGB180) . Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management. (No., JGB202114) . && Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform" (No. JGB202114) .		57	0	0	1	1	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	London	125 London Wall, London, ENGLAND	0301-4207	1873-7641		RESOUR POLICY	Resour. Policy	JAN	2024	88								104417	10.1016/j.resourpol.2023.104417	http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.resourpol.2023.104417		NOV 2023	8	Environmental Studies	Social Science Citation Index (SSCI)	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	CT1O8					2024-01-21	WOS:001127401900001
J	Zheng, SY; Chen, RJ; Liu, H; Li, JY; Fahad, S; Li, BQ				Zheng, Shi Yong; Chen, Rongjia; Liu, Hua; Li, Jiaying; Fahad, Shah; Li, Biqing			Corporate social responsibility initiatives and their role in firms' reputation and green economic recovery through organizational trust	ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH			English	Article						Organizational trust; Corporate reputation; Corporate social responsibility; Green economic recovery; Tourism industry; Employee relationship		Maintaining operations in the face of crises like COVID-19 is difficult. Using the stakeholder theory, this study examines the impact of corporate social responsibility (CSR) programs targeting company employees. Their social position and the likelihood of a green economic rebound (GER) are evaluated. Evidence shows that employee-focused CSR activities implemented by tourism boost organizational GER by fostering a more trusting work environment for their staff. Management and non-management staff at Chinese Tourism were polled using a non-probabilistic convenience sample and a 5-point Likert scale. Structured equation modeling was used to conduct structural analyses. Employee-focused CSR is a significant predictor of a firm reputation in the Chinese tourism industry. In addition, it is found that trust inside the organization acts as a go-between. The evidence also supports the hypothesis that a company's rising profile triggers GER. This research delves deeply into the connection between employees' perceptions of a company's employee-focused CSR initiatives, that company's reputation in the community, and employees' general enthusiasm for their job, a group that has been understudied until now. The findings are helpful for tourism management because they show them how to employ employee-focused CSR activities to strengthen connections with internal stakeholders while also using that reputation to shift to a greener way of doing business.	[Zheng, Shi Yong; Liu, Hua; Li, Jiaying; Li, Biqing] Guilin Univ Elect Technol, Sch Business, Guilin, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Shi Yong] Nanning Univ, Coll Digital Econ, Nanning, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Shi Yong; Fahad, Shah] Hainan Univ, Sch Management, Haikou, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Chen, Rongjia] Beijing Technol & Business Univ, Sch Econ, Beijing, Peoples R China	Guilin University of Electronic Technology; Nanning University; Hainan University; Beijing Technology & Business University	Chen, RJ (corresponding author), Beijing Technol & Business Univ, Sch Econ, Beijing, Peoples R China.	shiyongzheng123@whu.edu.cn; chenrongjia4@gmail.com; liuhua11240731@163.com; lijiaying226699@163.com; shah.fahad@mail.xjtu.edu.cn; zhanrui0688h@guet.edu.cn	Fahad, Shah/K-4922-2019	Fahad, Shah/0000-0002-7080-3031	National Social Foundation of China [20BGL247]; China Postdoctoral Science Foundation [2022M710038]; 2022 Ministry of Education University-Industry Cooperation and Collaborative Education Project: Construction of the Civic and Political System and Teaching Team for Marketing Courses [220506038100406]; Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project [2020AC19034]; 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project [22FGL024]; 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project [2021A033, 2021ZJY1607]; Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route [2021ZJY1612]; 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project [2022ZJY354]; Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization [2022ZJY1699]; 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education [JGY2022122]; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022 [2022JGB180]; Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology [JGB202114]; Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform" [JGB202114]; Doctoral research initiation project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology [US20001Y]	National Social Foundation of China; China Postdoctoral Science Foundation(China Postdoctoral Science Foundation); 2022 Ministry of Education University-Industry Cooperation and Collaborative Education Project: Construction of the Civic and Political System and Teaching Team for Marketing Courses; Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project; 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project; 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project; Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route; 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project; Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization; 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022; Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology; Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform"; Doctoral research initiation project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology	This research was supported by the following funds: The National Social Foundation of China (Grant No. 20BGL247); China Postdoctoral Science Foundation: A study on the mechanism of physician engagement behaviour in online medical communities from the perspective of network effects (No. 2022M710038), 2022 Ministry of Education University-Industry Cooperation and Collaborative Education Project: Construction of the Civic and Political System and Teaching Team for Marketing Courses (No. 220506038100406); Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce-based on social capital perspective (No. 2020AC19034); 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization (No. 22FGL024); 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment (No. 2021A033); 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of international students in China-taking Jieyin as an example (No. 2021ZJY1607) and Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route (No. 2021ZJY1612); 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions (No. 2022ZJY354) and Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization (No. 2022ZJY1699); 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi. (No. JGY2022122); Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode (No. 2022JGB180); Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management (No. JGB202114) and Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform" (No. JGB202114); and Doctoral research initiation project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: "Research on the incentive mechanism of knowledge sharing in online medical communities" (No. US20001Y).		51	1	1	8	8	SPRINGER HEIDELBERG	HEIDELBERG	TIERGARTENSTRASSE 17, D-69121 HEIDELBERG, GERMANY	0944-1344	1614-7499		ENVIRON SCI POLLUT R	Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res.	SEP	2023	30	45					101817	101828		10.1007/s11356-023-29259-1	http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11356-023-29259-1		SEP 2023	12	Environmental Sciences	Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)	Environmental Sciences & Ecology	X0WG8	37659017				2024-01-21	WOS:001060375100001
J	Brakenhoff, TB; Franks, B; Goodale, BM; van de Wijgert, J; Montes, S; Veen, D; Fredslund, EK; Rispens, T; Risch, L; Dowling, AV; Folarin, AA; Bruijning, P; Dobson, R; Heikamp, T; Klaver, P; Cronin, M; Grobbee, DE				Brakenhoff, Timo B.; Franks, Billy; Goodale, Brianna Mae; van de Wijgert, Janneke; Montes, Santiago; Veen, Duco; Fredslund, Eskild K.; Rispens, Theo; Risch, Lorenz; Dowling, Ariel V.; Folarin, Amos A.; Bruijning, Patricia; Dobson, Richard; Heikamp, Tessa; Klaver, Paul; Cronin, Maureen; Grobbee, Diederick E.			A prospective, randomized, single-blinded, crossover trial to investigate the effect of a wearable device in addition to a daily symptom diary for the Remote Early Detection of SARS-CoV-2 infections (COVID-RED): a structured summary of a study protocol for a randomized controlled trial	TRIALS			English	Article						COVID-19; Randomized controlled trial; Protocol; Wearable device; Mobile application; Early detection; SARS-CoV-2; Prospective; Physiological parameters; Algorithm; Machine learning; Symptom diary		Objectives It is currently thought that most-but not all-individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2 develop symptoms, but the infectious period starts on average 2 days before the first overt symptoms appear. It is estimated that pre- and asymptomatic individuals are responsible for more than half of all transmissions. By detecting infected individuals before they have overt symptoms, wearable devices could potentially and significantly reduce the proportion of transmissions by pre-symptomatic individuals. Using laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infections (detected via serology tests [to determine if there are antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 in the blood] or SARS-CoV-2 infection tests such as polymerase chain reaction [PCR] or antigen tests) as the gold standard, we will determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) for the following two algorithms to detect first time SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection: center dot The algorithm using Ava bracelet data when coupled with self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data (Wearable + Symptom Data Algo; experimental condition) center dot The algorithm using self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data alone (Symptom Only Algo; control condition) In addition, we will determine which of the two algorithms has superior performance characteristics for detecting SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection as confirmed by SARS-CoV-2 virus testing. Trial design The trial is a randomized, single-blinded, two-period, two-sequence crossover trial. The study will start with an initial learning phase (maximum of 3 months), followed by period 1 (3 months) and period 2 (3 months). Subjects entering the study at the end of the recruitment period may directly start with period 1 and will not be part of the learning phase. Each subject will undergo the experimental condition (the Wearable + Symptom Data Algo) in either period 1 or period 2 and the control condition (Symptom Only Algo) in the other period. The order will be randomly assigned, resulting in subjects being allocated 1:1 to either sequence 1 (experimental condition first) or sequence 2 (control condition first). Based on demographics, medical history and/or profession, each subject will be stratified at baseline into a high-risk and normal-risk group within each sequence. Participants The trial will be conducted in the Netherlands. A target of 20,000 subjects will be enrolled. Based on demographics, medical history and/or profession, each subject will be stratified at baseline into a high-risk and normal-risk group within each sequence. This results in approximately 6500 normal-risk individuals and 3500 high-risk individuals per sequence. Subjects will be recruited from previously studied cohorts as well as via public campaigns and social media. All data for this study will be collected remotely through the Ava COVID-RED app, the Ava bracelet, surveys in the COVID-RED web portal and self-sampling serology and PCR kits. More information on the study can be found in . During recruitment, subjects will be invited to visit the COVID-RED web portal. After successfully completing the enrolment questionnaire, meeting eligibility criteria and indicating interest in joining the study, subjects will receive the subject information sheet and informed consent form. Subjects can enrol in COVID-RED if they comply with the following inclusion and exclusion criteria: Inclusion criteria: center dot Resident of the Netherlands center dot At least 18 years old center dot Informed consent provided (electronic) center dot Willing to adhere to the study procedures described in the protocol center dot Must have a smartphone that runs at least Android 8.0 or iOS 13.0 operating systems and is active for the duration of the study (in the case of a change of mobile number, the study team should be notified) center dot Be able to read, understand and write Dutch Exclusion criteria: center dot Previous positive SARS-CoV-2 test result (confirmed either through PCR/antigen or antibody tests; self-reported) center dot Current suspected (e.g. waiting for test result) COVID-19 infection or symptoms of a COVID-19 infection (self-reported) center dot Participating in any other COVID-19 clinical drug, vaccine or medical device trial (self-reported) center dot Electronic implanted device (such as a pacemaker; self-reported) center dot Pregnant at the time of informed consent (self-reported) center dot Suffering from cholinergic urticaria (per the Ava bracelet's user manual; self-reported) center dot Staff involved in the management or conduct of this study Intervention and comparator All subjects will be instructed to complete the Daily Symptom Diary in the Ava COVID-RED app daily, wear their Ava bracelet each night and synchronize it with the app each day for the entire period of study participation. Provided with wearable sensor and/or self-reported symptom data within the last 24 h, the Ava COVID-RED app's underlying algorithms will provide subjects with a real-time indicator of their overall health and well-being. Subjects will see one of three messages, notifying them that no seeming deviations in symptoms and/or physiological parameters have been detected; some changes in symptoms and/or physiological parameters have been detected and they should self-isolate; or alerting them that deviations in their symptoms and/or physiological parameters could be suggestive of a potential COVID-19 infection and to seek additional testing. We will assess the intraperson performance of the algorithms in the experimental condition (Wearable + Symptom Data Algo) and control conditions (Symptom Only Algo). Note that both algorithms will also instruct to seek testing when any SARS-CoV-2 symptoms are reported in line with those defined by the Dutch national institute for public health and the environment 'Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu' (RIVM) guidelines. Main outcomes The trial will evaluate the use and performance of the Ava COVID-RED app and Ava bracelet, which uses sensors to measure breathing rate, pulse rate, skin temperature and heart rate variability for the purpose of early and asymptomatic detection and monitoring of SARS-CoV-2 in general and high-risk populations. Using laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infections (detected via serology tests, PCR tests and/or antigen tests) as the gold standard, we will determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) for each of the following two algorithms to detect first-time SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection: the algorithm using Ava bracelet data when coupled with the self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data and the algorithm using self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data alone. In addition, we will determine which of the two algorithms has superior performance characteristics for detecting SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection as confirmed by SARS-CoV-2 virus testing. The protocol contains an additional twenty secondary and exploratory objectives which address, among others, infection incidence rates, health resource utilization, symptoms reported by SARS-CoV-2-infected participants and the rate of breakthrough and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections among individuals vaccinated against COVID-19. PCR or antigen testing will occur when the subject receives a notification from the algorithm to seek additional testing. Subjects will be advised to get tested via the national testing programme and report the testing result in the Ava COVID-RED app and a survey. If they cannot obtain a test via the national testing programme, they will receive a nasal swab self-sampling kit at home, and the sample will be tested by PCR in a trial-affiliated laboratory. In addition, all subjects will be asked to take a capillary blood sample at home at baseline (between month 0 and 3.5 months after the start of subject recruitment), at the end of the learning phase (month 3; note that this sampling moment is skipped if a subject entered the study at the end of the recruitment period), period 1 (month 6) and period 2 (month 9). These samples will be used for SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody testing in a trial-affiliated laboratory, differentiating between antibodies resulting from a natural infection and antibodies resulting from COVID-19 vaccination (as vaccination will gradually be rolled out during the trial period). Baseline samples will only be analysed if the sample collected at the end of the learning phase is positive, or if the subject entered the study at the end of the recruitment period, and samples collected at the end of period 1 will only be analysed if the sample collected at the end of period 2 is positive. When subjects obtain a positive PCR/antigen or serology test result during the study, they will continue to be in the study but will be moved into a so-called COVID-positive mode in the Ava COVID-RED app. This means that they will no longer receive recommendations from the algorithms but can still contribute and track symptom and bracelet data. The primary analysis of the main objective will be executed using the data collected in period 2 (months 6 through 9). Within this period, serology tests (before and after period 2) and PCR/antigen tests (taken based on recommendations by the algorithms) will be used to determine if a subject was infected with SARS-CoV-2 or not. Within this same time period, it will be determined if the algorithms gave any recommendations for testing. The agreement between these quantities will be used to evaluate the performance of the algorithms and how these compare between the study conditions. Randomization All eligible subjects will be randomized using a stratified block randomization approach with an allocation ratio of 1:1 to one of two sequences (experimental condition followed by control condition or control condition followed by experimental condition). Based on demographics, medical history and/or profession, each subject will be stratified at baseline into a high-risk and normal-risk group within each sequence, resulting in approximately equal numbers of high-risk and normal-risk individuals between the sequences. Blinding (masking) In this study, subjects will be blinded to the study condition and randomization sequence. Relevant study staff and the device manufacturer will be aware of the assigned sequence. The subject will wear the Ava bracelet and complete the Daily Symptom Diary in the Ava COVID-RED app for the full duration of the study, and they will not know if the feedback they receive about their potential infection status will only be based on the data they entered in the Daily Symptom Diary within the Ava COVID-RED app or based on both the data from the Daily Symptom Diary and the Ava bracelet. Numbers to be randomized (sample size) A total of 20,000 subjects will be recruited and randomized 1:1 to either sequence 1 (experimental condition followed by control condition) or sequence 2 (control condition followed by experimental condition), taking into account their risk level. This results in approximately 6500 normal-risk and 3500 high-risk individuals per sequence. Trial status Protocol version: 3.0, dated May 3, 2021. Start of recruitment: February 19, 2021. End of recruitment: June 3, 2021. End of follow-up (estimated): November 2021 Full protocol The full protocol is attached as an additional file, accessible from the Trials website (Additional file 1). In the interest in expediting dissemination of this material, the familiar formatting has been eliminated; this letter serves as a summary of the key elements of the full protocol.	[Brakenhoff, Timo B.; Franks, Billy; Veen, Duco; Heikamp, Tessa; Klaver, Paul; Grobbee, Diederick E.] Julius Clin, Zeist, Netherlands; [Goodale, Brianna Mae; Cronin, Maureen] Ava AG, Zurich, Switzerland; [van de Wijgert, Janneke; Bruijning, Patricia] Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Julius Ctr Hlth Sci & Primary Care, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Montes, Santiago] Roche Diagnost Nederland BV, Almere, Netherlands; [Veen, Duco; Grobbee, Diederick E.] Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Julius Ctr Hlth Sci & Primary Care, Julius Global Hlth, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Veen, Duco] North West Univ, Optentia Res Program, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Fredslund, Eskild K.] Vive, Aarhus, Denmark; [Rispens, Theo] Sanquin, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Risch, Lorenz] Labormed Zentrum Dr Risch, Vaduz, Liechtenstein; [Risch, Lorenz] Private Univ Furstentum Liechtenstein, Fac Med Sci, Triesen, Liechtenstein; [Risch, Lorenz] Univ Bern, Univ Inst Clin Chem, Ctr Lab Med, Bern, Switzerland; [Dowling, Ariel V.] Takeda Pharmaceut USA Inc, Data Sci Inst, Cambridge, MA USA; [Folarin, Amos A.] Kings Coll London, Natl Inst Hlth Res, Maudley Biomed Res Ctr, London, England; [Folarin, Amos A.] UCL, Inst Hlth Informat, London, England; [Folarin, Amos A.] South London & Maudsley NHS Fdn Trust, London, England	Utrecht University; Utrecht University Medical Center; Utrecht University; Utrecht University Medical Center; North West University - South Africa; University of Bern; University Hospital of Bern; Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd; Takeda Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (TPUSA); University of London; King's College London; University of London; University College London; South London & Maudsley NHS Trust	Brakenhoff, TB (corresponding author), Julius Clin, Zeist, Netherlands.	timo.brakenhoff@juliusclinical.com	Goodale, Brianna/GLT-9405-2022; Cronin, Maureen Lisa/ABC-4218-2021; (UFL), Private Universität im Fürstentum Liechtenstein/ITU-7115-2023; Risch, Lorenz/D-4629-2011; Folarin, Amos Akinola/IWE-0229-2023; dobson, richard/C-9269-2011	Risch, Lorenz/0000-0003-2692-6699; Folarin, Amos Akinola/0000-0002-0333-1927; Downward, George/0000-0001-6642-7048; Fredslund, Eskild Klausen/0000-0003-0340-2489; Denaxas, Spiros/0000-0001-9612-7791; van de Wijgert, Janneke H.H.M./0000-0003-2728-4560; dobson, richard/0000-0003-4224-9245; Reitsma, Johannes/0000-0003-4026-4345	Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking [101005177]; European Union; EFPIA	Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking; European Union(European Union (EU)); EFPIA	The COVID-RED project has received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 101005177. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme and EFPIA.		0	4	4	0	11	BMC	LONDON	CAMPUS, 4 CRINAN ST, LONDON N1 9XW, ENGLAND		1745-6215		TRIALS	Trials	OCT 11	2021	22	1							694	10.1186/s13063-021-05643-5	http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13063-021-05643-5			5	Medicine, Research & Experimental	Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)	Research & Experimental Medicine	WF2GQ	34635140	Green Published, gold			2024-01-21	WOS:000706129800004
J	Zheng, SY; Ahmed, D; Xie, YT; Majeed, MT; Hafeez, M				Zheng, ShiYong; Ahmed, Danish; Xie, Yuantao; Majeed, Muhammad Tariq; Hafeez, Muhammad			Green growth and carbon neutrality targets in China: Do financial integration and ICT matter?	JOURNAL OF CLEANER PRODUCTION			English	Article						Green growth; Carbon neutrality; Financial integration; ICT	ECONOMIC-GROWTH; ENERGY-CONSUMPTION; IMPACT; TECHNOLOGY; INNOVATION; QUALITY	Financial integration and ICT are two of many factors that have gained popularity regarding their impact on sustainability. Therefore, this research examines how ICT and financial integration affect green growth and carbon neutrality. We employed the QARDL model for empirical analysis across short-and long-run quantiles. The study's main results show that financial integration and ICT reduce carbon emissions in the long and short -run. In addition, financial integration and ICT help achieve green growth in the short and long run. Furthermore, the Wald test confirms that financial integration and ICT have an asymmetric impact on carbon neutrality and green growth in the long run. The study provides various important policy suggestions that help in green growth and carbon neutrality targets.	[Zheng, ShiYong] Guilin Univ Elect Technol, Sch Business, Guilin, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Ahmed, Danish] Hainan Univ, Management Sch, Haikou, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Ahmed, Danish] Nanning Univ, Coll Digital Econ, Nanning, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Ahmed, Danish] Jiangsu Univ, Sch Finance & Econ, Zhenjiang 212013, Peoples R China; [Xie, Yuantao] Shanghai Jian Qiao Univ, Sch Foreign Language, Shanghai 201315, Peoples R China; [Majeed, Muhammad Tariq] Univ Bolton, Ctr Islamic Finance, Bolton BL3 5AB, England; [Hafeez, Muhammad] Univ Int Business Sand Econ, Sch Insurance & Econ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ahmed, Danish] Quaid i Azam Univ, Sch Econ, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Hafeez, Muhammad] Univ Agr Faisalabad, Inst Business Management Sci, Faisalabad 38040, Pakistan; [Ahmed, Danish] Jiangsu Univ, Inst Ind Econ, Zhenjiang 212013, Peoples R China	Guilin University of Electronic Technology; Hainan University; Nanning University; Jiangsu University; University of Bolton; Quaid I Azam University; University of Agriculture Faisalabad; Jiangsu University	Ahmed, D (corresponding author), Jiangsu Univ, Inst Ind Econ, Zhenjiang 212013, Peoples R China.	shiyongzheng123@whu.edu.cn; danish.ahmed88@live.com; xieyuantao@uibe.edu.cn; tariq@qau.edu.pk; Muhammad.Hafeez@uaf.edu.pk	Majeed, Muhammad Tariq/JNT-6940-2023; Xie, Yuantao/L-5758-2017	Majeed, Muhammad Tariq/0000-0001-9374-5025; Xie, Yuantao/0000-0001-8507-9659	China Postdoctoral Science Foundation [2022M710038]; Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project [2020AC19034]; Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project [22FGL024]; Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project [2021A033, 2021ZJY1607, 2021ZJY1612, 2022ZJY354, 2022ZJY1699]; Guangxi Graduate Education [JGY2022122]; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022 [2022JGB180]; Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology [JGB202114, US20001Y]; National Social Foundation of China [20BGL247]	China Postdoctoral Science Foundation(China Postdoctoral Science Foundation); Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project; Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project; Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project; Guangxi Graduate Education; Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022; Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology; National Social Foundation of China	This research was supported by the following funds:; 1. China Postdoctoral Science Foundation: A study on the mechanism of physician engagement behaviour in online medical communities from the perspective of network effects (No. 2022M710038).; 2. Guangxi Science and Technology Base and Talent Special Project: Research on the incentive mechanism of user information sharing in live e-commerce - based on social capital perspective (No., 2020AC19034).; 3. 2022 Guangxi Philosophy and Social Science Planning Research Project: Path and Policy Optimization of High-Quality Integration of Rural Agriculture, Culture and Tourism for Rural Revitalization (No., 22FGL024).; 4. 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of learning communities on users' online learning behavior in the information technology environment (No., 2021A033).; 5. 2021 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the influence of short video sharing on Chinese cultural identity of international students in China taking Jieyin as an example (No., 2021ZJY1607). &&Research on the impact of the "One Belt, One Road" initiative on the moral education of international students from countries along its route (No. 2021ZJY1612); 6. 2022 Guangxi 14th Five-Year Education Science Planning Key Special Project: Research on the Design of Informatization Classroom Teaching Evaluation Index System in General Higher Undergraduate Institutions (No., 2022ZJY354); && Research on the Model Mechanism of High-Quality Development of Study Tours for Rural Revitalization (No., 2022ZJY1699).; 7. 2022 Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education: Research on Cultivating Innovation and Practical Ability of Postgraduates in Local Universities in Guangxi. (No., JGY2022122).; 8. Guangxi undergraduate teaching reform project in 2022: research on the construction of thinking and government in marketing courses under the online and offline mixed teaching mode. (No., 2022JGB180).; 9. Teaching reform project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: research on the construction of the ideology and politics of the course of Brand Management. (No., JGB202114).&&Research and practice on the cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship of university students based on the trinity of "curriculum + base + platform" (No. JGB202114).; 10. Doctoral research initiation project of Guilin University of Electronic Science and Technology: "Research on the incentive mechanism of knowledge sharing in online medical communities" (No., US20001Y).; 11. The National Social Foundation of China (Grant No. 20BGL247).		61	16	16	15	18	ELSEVIER SCI LTD	OXFORD	THE BOULEVARD, LANGFORD LANE, KIDLINGTON, OXFORD OX5 1GB, OXON, ENGLAND	0959-6526	1879-1786		J CLEAN PROD	J. Clean Prod.	JUN 15	2023	405								136923	10.1016/j.jclepro.2023.136923	http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2023.136923		APR 2023	10	Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)	Science & Technology - Other Topics; Engineering; Environmental Sciences & Ecology	E5YB5					2024-01-21	WOS:000976285500001
J	Brakenhoff, TB; Franks, B; Goodale, BM; van de Wijgert, J; Montes, S; Veen, D; Fredslund, EK; Rispens, T; Risch, L; Dowling, AV; Folarin, AA; Bruijning, P; Dobson, R; Heikamp, T; Klaver, P; Cronin, M; Grobbee, DE				Brakenhoff, Timo B.; Franks, Billy; Goodale, Brianna Mae; van de Wijgert, Janneke; Montes, Santiago; Veen, Duco; Fredslund, Eskild K.; Rispens, Theo; Risch, Lorenz; Dowling, Ariel V.; Folarin, Amos A.; Bruijning, Patricia; Dobson, Richard; Heikamp, Tessa; Klaver, Paul; Cronin, Maureen; Grobbee, Diederick E.		COVID-RED Consortium	A prospective, randomized, single-blinded, crossover trial to investigate the effect of a wearable device in addition to a daily symptom diary for the remote early detection of SARS-CoV-2 infections (COVID-RED): a structured summary of a study protocol for a randomized controlled trial	TRIALS			English	Letter						COVID-19; Randomised controlled trial; protocol; wearable device; mobile application; early detection; SARS-CoV-2; prospective; physiological parameters; algorithm; machine learning; symptom diary		Objectives: It is currently thought that most-but not all-individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2 develop symptoms, but that the infectious period starts on average two days before the first overt symptoms appear. It is estimated that pre- and asymptomatic individuals are responsible for more than half of all transmissions. By detecting infected individuals before they have overt symptoms, wearable devices could potentially and significantly reduce the proportion of transmissions by pre-symptomatic individuals. Using laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infections (detected via serology tests [to determine if there are antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 in the blood] or SARS-CoV-2 infection tests such as polymerase chain reaction [PCR] or antigen tests) as the gold standard, we will determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) for the following two algorithms to detect first time SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection: the algorithm using Ava bracelet data when coupled with self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data (Wearable + Symptom Data Algo; experimental condition) the algorithm using self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data alone (Symptom Only Algo; control condition) In addition, we will determine which of the two algorithms has superior performance characteristics for detecting SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection as confirmed by SARS-CoV-2 virus testing. Trial design: The trial is a randomized, single-blinded, two-period, two-sequence crossover trial. All subjects will participate in an initial Learning Phase (varying from 2 weeks to 3 months depending on enrolment date), followed by two contiguous 3-month test phases, Period 1 and Period 2. Each subject will undergo the experimental condition (the Wearable + Symptom Data Algo) in one of these periods and the control condition (Symptom Only Algo) in the other period. The order will be randomly assigned, resulting in subjects being allocated 1:1 to either Sequence 1 (experimental condition first) or Sequence 2 (control condition first). Based on demographics, medical history and/or profession, each subject will be stratified at baseline into a high-risk and normal-risk group within each sequence. Participants: The trial will be conducted in the Netherlands. A target of 20,000 subjects will be enrolled. Based on demographics, medical history and/or profession, each subject will be stratified at baseline into a high-risk and normal-risk group within each sequence. This results in approximately 6,500 normal-risk individuals and 3,500 high-risk individuals per sequence. Subjects will be recruited from previously studied cohorts as well as via public campaigns and social media. All data for this study will be collected remotely through the Ava COVID-RED app, the Ava bracelet, surveys in the COVID-RED web portal, and self-sampling serology and PCR kits. During recruitment, subjects will be invited to visit the COVID-RED web portal (www.covid-red.eu). After successfully completing the enrolment questionnaire, meeting eligibility criteria and indicating interest in joining the study, subjects will receive the subject information sheet and informed consent form. Subjects can enrol in COVID-RED if they comply with the following inclusion and exclusion criteria. Inclusion criteria: Resident of the Netherlands At least 18 years old Informed consent provided (electronic) Willing to adhere to the study procedures described in the protocol Must have a smartphone that runs at least Android 8.0 or iOS 13.0 operating systems and is active for the duration of the study (in the case of a change of mobile number, study team should be notified) Be able to read, understand and write Dutch Exclusion criteria: Previous positive SARS-CoV-2 test result (confirmed either through PCR/antigen or antibody tests; self-reported) Previously received a vaccine developed specifically for COVID-19 or in possession of an appointment for vaccination in the near future (self-reported) Current suspected (e.g., waiting for test result) COVID-19 infection or symptoms of a COVID-19 infection (self-reported) Participating in any other COVID-19 clinical drug, vaccine, or medical device trial (self-reported) Electronic implanted device (such as a pacemaker; self-reported) Pregnant at time of informed consent (self-reported) Suffering from cholinergic urticaria (per the Ava bracelet's User Manual; self-reported) Staff involved in the management or conduct of this study Intervention and comparator: All subjects will be instructed to complete the Daily Symptom Diary in the Ava COVID-RED app daily, wear their Ava bracelet each night and synchronise it with the app each day for the entire period of study participation. Provided with wearable sensor and/or self-reported symptom data within the last 24 hours, the Ava COVID-RED app's underlying algorithms will provide subjects with a real-time indicator of their overall health and well-being. Subjects will see one of three messages, notifying them that: no seeming deviations in symptoms and/or physiological parameters have been detected; some changes in symptoms and/or physiological parameters have been detected and they should self-isolate; or alerting them that deviations in their symptoms and/or physiological parameters could be suggestive of a potential COVID-19 infection and to seek additional testing. We will assess intraperson performance of the algorithms in the experimental condition (Wearable + Symptom Data Algo) and control conditions (Symptom Only Algo). Main outcomes: The trial will evaluate the use and performance of the Ava COVID-RED app and Ava bracelet, which uses sensors to measure breathing rate, pulse rate, skin temperature, and heart rate variability for the purpose of early and asymptomatic detection and monitoring of SARS-CoV-2 in general and high-risk populations. Using laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infections (detected via serology tests, PCR tests and/or antigen tests) as the gold standard, we will determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) for each of the following two algorithms to detect first-time SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection: the algorithm using Ava Bracelet data when coupled with the self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data, and the algorithm using self-reported Daily Symptom Diary data alone. In addition, we will determine which of the two algorithms has superior performance characteristics for detecting SARS-CoV-2 infection including early or asymptomatic infection as confirmed by SARS-CoV-2 virus testing. The protocol contains an additional seventeen secondary outcomes which address infection incidence rates, health resource utilization, symptoms reported by SARS-CoV-2 infected participants, and the rate of breakthrough and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections among individuals vaccinated against COVID-19. PCR or antigen testing will occur when the subject receives a notification from the algorithm to seek additional testing. Subjects will be advised to get tested via the national testing programme, and report the testing result in the Ava COVID-RED app and a survey. If they cannot obtain a test via the national testing programme, they will receive a nasal swab self-sampling kit at home, and the sample will be tested by PCR in a trial-affiliated laboratory. In addition, all subjects will be asked to take a capillary blood sample at home at baseline (Month 0), and at the end of the Learning Phase (Month 3), Period 1 (Month 6) and Period 2 (Month 9). These samples will be used for SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody testing in a trial-affiliated laboratory, differentiating between antibodies resulting from a natural infection and antibodies resulting from COVID-19 vaccination (as vaccination will gradually be rolled out during the trial period). Baseline samples will only be analysed if the sample collected at the end of the Learning Phase is positive, and samples collected at the end of Period 1 will only be analysed if the sample collected at the end of Period 2 is positive. When subjects obtain a positive PCR/antigen or serology test result during the study, they will continue to be in the study but will be moved into a so-called "COVID-positive" mode in the Ava COVID-RED app. This means that they will no longer receive recommendations from the algorithms but can still contribute and track symptom and bracelet data. The primary analysis of the main objective will be executed using data collected in Period 2 (Month 6 through 9). Within this period, serology tests (before and after Period 2) and PCR/antigen tests (taken based on recommendations by the algorithms) will be used to determine if a subject was infected with SARS-CoV-2 or not. Within this same time period, it will be determined if the algorithms gave any recommendations for testing. The agreement between these quantities will be used to evaluate the performance of the algorithms and how these compare between the study conditions. Randomisation: All eligible subjects will be randomized using a stratified block randomization approach with an allocation ratio of 1:1 to one of two sequences (experimental condition followed by control condition or control condition followed by experimental condition). Based on demographics, medical history and/or profession, each subject will be stratified at baseline into a high-risk and normal-risk group within each sequence, resulting in equal numbers of high-risk and normal-risk individuals between the sequences. Blinding (masking): In this study, subjects will be blinded as to study condition and randomization sequence. Relevant study staff and the device manufacturer will be aware of the assigned sequence. The subject will wear the Ava bracelet and complete the Daily Symptom Diary in the Ava COVID-RED app for the full duration of the study, and they will not know if the feedback they receive about their potential infection status will only be based on data they entered in the Daily Symptom Diary within the Ava COVID-RED app or based on both the data from the Daily Symptom Diary and the Ava bracelet. Numbers to be randomised (sample size): 20,000 subjects will be recruited and randomized 1:1 to either Sequence 1 (experimental condition followed by control condition) or Sequence 2 (control condition followed by experimental condition), taking into account their risk level. This results in approximately 6,500 normal-risk and 3,500 high-risk individuals per sequence. Trial Status: Protocol version: 1.2, dated January 22(nd), 2021 Start of recruitment: February 22(nd), 2021 End of recruitment (estimated): April 2021 End of follow-up (estimated): December 2021	[Brakenhoff, Timo B.; Franks, Billy; Veen, Duco; Heikamp, Tessa; Klaver, Paul; Grobbee, Diederick E.] Julius Clin, Zeist, Netherlands; [Goodale, Brianna Mae; Cronin, Maureen] Ava AG, Zurich, Switzerland; [van de Wijgert, Janneke; Bruijning, Patricia] Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Julius Ctr Hlth Sci & Primary Care, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Montes, Santiago] Roche Diagnost Nederland BV, Almere, Netherlands; [Veen, Duco; Grobbee, Diederick E.] Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, Julius Ctr Hlth Sci & Primary Care, Julius Global Hlth, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Veen, Duco] North West Univ, Optentia Res Program, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Fredslund, Eskild K.] Vive, Aarhus, Denmark; [Rispens, Theo] Sanquin, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Risch, Lorenz] Lab Med Zentrum Dr Risch, Vaduz, Liechtenstein; [Risch, Lorenz] Private Univ Furstentum Liechtenstein, Fac Med Sci, Triesen, Liechtenstein; [Risch, Lorenz] Univ Bern, Univ Inst Clin Chem, Ctr Lab Med, Bern, Switzerland; [Dowling, Ariel V.] Takeda Pharmaceut USA Inc, Data Sci Inst, Cambridge, MA USA; [Folarin, Amos A.] Kings Coll London, Natl Inst Hlth Res Maudsley Biomed Res Ctr, London, England; [Folarin, Amos A.; Dobson, Richard] UCL, Inst Hlth Informat, London, England; [Folarin, Amos A.] South London & Maudsley NHS Fdn Trust, London, England	Utrecht University; Utrecht University Medical Center; Utrecht University; Utrecht University Medical Center; North West University - South Africa; University of Bern; University Hospital of Bern; Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd; Takeda Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (TPUSA); University of London; King's College London; University of London; University College London; South London & Maudsley NHS Trust	Brakenhoff, TB (corresponding author), Julius Clin, Zeist, Netherlands.	timo.brakenhoff@juliusclinical.com	(UFL), Private Universität im Fürstentum Liechtenstein/ITU-7115-2023; Folarin, Amos Akinola/IWE-0229-2023; Risch, Lorenz/D-4629-2011; Cronin, Maureen Lisa/ABC-4218-2021; dobson, richard/C-9269-2011	Folarin, Amos Akinola/0000-0002-0333-1927; Risch, Lorenz/0000-0003-2692-6699; Denaxas, Spiros/0000-0001-9612-7791; Reitsma, Johannes/0000-0003-4026-4345; dobson, richard/0000-0003-4224-9245; Fredslund, Eskild Klausen/0000-0003-0340-2489; van de Wijgert, Janneke H.H.M./0000-0003-2728-4560; Grossmann, Kirsten/0000-0002-0460-3736; Downward, George/0000-0001-6642-7048	Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking [101005177]; European Union; EFPIA	Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking; European Union(European Union (EU)); EFPIA	The COVID-RED project has received funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative (https://www.imi.europa.eu) 2 Joint Undertaking under grant agreement No 101005177. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Union's Horizon 2020 (https://ec.europa.eu/programmes/horizon2020/) research and innovation programme and EFPIA (https://www.efpia.eu/).		0	7	7	3	13	BMC	LONDON	CAMPUS, 4 CRINAN ST, LONDON N1 9XW, ENGLAND		1745-6215		TRIALS	Trials	JUN 22	2021	22	1							412	10.1186/s13063-021-05241-5	http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13063-021-05241-5			5	Medicine, Research & Experimental	Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)	Research & Experimental Medicine	SY3XQ	34158099	Green Published, gold			2024-01-21	WOS:000665824700002
J	Shuler, CK; Dulai, H; DeWees, R; Kirs, M; Glenn, CR; El-Kadi, AI				Shuler, Christopher K.; Dulai, Henrietta; DeWees, Randel; Kirs, Marek; Glenn, Craig R.; El-Kadi, Aly I.			Isotopes, Microbes, and Turbidity: A Multi-Tracer Approach to Understanding Recharge Dynamics and Groundwater Contamination in a Basaltic Island Aquifer	GROUND WATER MONITORING AND REMEDIATION			English	Article							REGIONAL HYDROLOGY; TRANSPORT; RAINWATER; RAINFALL; INSIGHTS; OXYGEN	Wells designated as groundwater under the direct influence (GUDI) of surface water have caused an ongoing boil-water advisory afflicting the island of Tutuila, American Samoa for almost a decade. Regulatory testing at these wells found turbidity and indicator bacteria spikes correlated with heavy rainfall events. However, the mechanism of this contamination has, until now, remained unknown. Surface water may reach wells through improperly sealed well casings, or through the aquifer matrix itself. In this study, three independent surface water tracers, turbidity, indicator bacteria, and water isotopes were used to assess recharge timing and determine contamination mechanisms. Results from each method were reasonably consistent, revealing average GUDI well breakthrough times of 37 +/- 21 h for turbidity, 18 to 63 h for bacteria, and 1 to 5 days for water isotopes. These times match well with estimated subsurface flow rates through highly permeable aquifer materials. In contrast, where one well casing was found to be compromised, turbidity breakthrough was observed at 3 to 4 h. These results support local management decisions and show repairing or replacing wells will likely result in continued GUDI contamination. Additionally, differences in observed rainfall response for each tracer provide insight into the recharge dynamics and subsurface flow characteristics of this and other highly conductive young-basaltic aquifers.	[Shuler, Christopher K.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Earth Sci, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Shuler, Christopher K.] 1680 East West Rd POST 701, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Dulai, Henrietta] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Geol & Geophys, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Dulai, Henrietta; Glenn, Craig R.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Water Resources Res Ctr, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [DeWees, Randel] Amer Samoa Community Coll, Dept Sci, Malaeimi, AS USA; [Kirs, Marek; El-Kadi, Aly I.] Univ Hawaii, Water Resources Res Ctr, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Glenn, Craig R.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Earth Sci, Geol & Geophys, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Glenn, Craig R.] UHM, Marine & Environm Geol Grp, Honolulu, HI USA; [El-Kadi, Aly I.] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Geol & Geophys, Hydrol, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA	University of Hawaii System; University of Hawaii Manoa; University of Hawaii System; University of Hawaii Manoa; University of Hawaii System; University of Hawaii Manoa; University of Hawaii System; University of Hawaii System; University of Hawaii Manoa; University of Hawaii System; University of Hawaii Manoa	Shuler, CK (corresponding author), Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Earth Sci, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA.; Shuler, CK (corresponding author), 1680 East West Rd POST 701, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA.	cshuler@hawaii.edu	Dulai, Henrietta/AAY-9632-2020	Dulai, Henrietta/0000-0001-5970-1483	ASPA water department; Pacific Regional Integrated Sciences and Assessments (Pacific RISA); NOAA Climate Program Office [NA15OAR4310146]; Water Resources Research Institute Program grant [G16AP00049: 2017AS471B]	ASPA water department; Pacific Regional Integrated Sciences and Assessments (Pacific RISA); NOAA Climate Program Office(National Oceanic Atmospheric Admin (NOAA) - USA); Water Resources Research Institute Program grant	Fa'afetai Tele Lava to the agencies and the individuals without whom this work would not have been possible. American Samoa Power Authority has acted as a primary collaborator, information recipient, and intellectual driver for this work. ASPA's forward thinking leadership and the hard-working individuals within the ASPA water department contributed greatly and supported this project over almost a half-decade worth of study. In particular Utu Abe Malae, Will Spitzenberg Danielle Mauga, Katrina Mariner, Matt Erickson, and the operations staff provided data, site access, and support for research needs. Sampling for this project could not have happened without the hard work and dedication (often during pouring rainstorms) of faculty and student intern collaborators at the American Samoa Community College. In particular Kelley Anderson-Tagarino, Rocco Tinitali, Hugh Fuimaono, Janet Chang, and Mona Chang. Jason Gambatese at US EPA Region 9 provided invaluable data and from ASPA GUDI well tests and key advice and experience in his previous work on this issue. Also, valuable review and project design was provided by Scot Izuka and Joe Fackrell. We would also like to acknowledge the very helpful suggestions provided by the manuscript's reviewers. Support for this work was provided by: the Pacific Regional Integrated Sciences and Assessments (Pacific RISA), NOAA Climate Program Office grant NA15OAR4310146 and the Water Resources Research Institute Program grant G16AP00049: 2017AS471B.		38	9	9	0	4	WILEY	HOBOKEN	111 RIVER ST, HOBOKEN 07030-5774, NJ USA	1069-3629	1745-6592		GROUND WATER MONIT R	Ground Water Monit. Remediat.	FEB	2019	39	1					20	35		10.1111/gwmr.12299	http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gwmr.12299			16	Water Resources	Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)	Water Resources	HN0ZF		Bronze			2024-01-21	WOS:000459916200003
J	Scheepers, C; Everatt, J; Amoako, DG; Tegally, H; Wibmer, CK; Mnguni, A; Ismail, A; Mahlangu, B; Lambson, BE; Martin, DP; Wilkinson, E; San, JE; Giandhari, J; Manamela, N; Ntuli, N; Kgagudi, P; Cele, S; Richardson, SI; Pillay, S; Mohale, T; Ramphal, U; Naidoo, Y; Khumalo, ZT; Kwatra, G; Gray, G; Bekker, LG; Madhi, SA; Baillie, V; Van Voorhis, WC; Treurnicht, FK; Venter, M; Mlisana, K; Wolter, N; Sigal, A; Williamson, C; Hsiao, NY; Msomi, N; Maponga, T; Preiser, W; Makatini, Z; Lessells, R; Moore, PL; de Oliveira, T; von Gottberg, A; Bhiman, JN				Scheepers, Cathrine; Everatt, Josie; Amoako, Daniel G.; Tegally, Houriiyah; Wibmer, Constantinos Kurt; Mnguni, Anele; Ismail, Arshad; Mahlangu, Boitshoko; Lambson, Bronwen E.; Martin, Darren P.; Wilkinson, Eduan; San, James Emmanuel; Giandhari, Jennifer; Manamela, Nelia; Ntuli, Noxolo; Kgagudi, Prudence; Cele, Sandile; Richardson, Simone, I; Pillay, Sureshnee; Mohale, Thabo; Ramphal, Upasana; Naidoo, Yeshnee; Khumalo, Zamantungwa T.; Kwatra, Gaurav; Gray, Glenda; Bekker, Linda-Gail; Madhi, Shabir A.; Baillie, Vicky; Van Voorhis, Wesley C.; Treurnicht, Florette K.; Venter, Marietjie; Mlisana, Koleka; Wolter, Nicole; Sigal, Alex; Williamson, Carolyn; Hsiao, Nei-yuan; Msomi, Nokukhanya; Maponga, Tongai; Preiser, Wolfgang; Makatini, Zinhle; Lessells, Richard; Moore, Penny L.; de Oliveira, Tulio; von Gottberg, Anne; Bhiman, Jinal N.			Emergence and phenotypic characterization of the global SARS-CoV-2 C.1.2 lineage	NATURE COMMUNICATIONS			English	Article								Global genomic surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 has identified variants associated with increased transmissibility, neutralization resistance and disease severity. Here we report the emergence of the PANGO lineage C.1.2, detected at low prevalence in South Africa and eleven other countries. The initial C.1.2 detection is associated with a high substitution rate, and includes changes within the spike protein that have been associated with increased transmissibility or reduced neutralization sensitivity in SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern or variants of interest. Like Beta and Delta, C.1.2 shows significantly reduced neutralization sensitivity to plasma from vaccinees and individuals infected with the ancestral D614G virus. In contrast, convalescent donors infected with either Beta or Delta show high plasma neutralization against C.1.2. These functional data suggest that vaccine efficacy against C.1.2 will be equivalent to Beta and Delta, and that prior infection with either Beta or Delta will likely offer protection against C.1.2. The SARS-CoV-2 PANGO lineage C.1.2 has been under monitoring by global health authorities as it has spread worldwide. Here, Bhiman and colleagues characterise the emergence of the lineage, and its neutralisation sensitivity using data from vaccinees and previously infected individuals.	[Scheepers, Cathrine; Everatt, Josie; Amoako, Daniel G.; Wibmer, Constantinos Kurt; Mnguni, Anele; Ismail, Arshad; Mahlangu, Boitshoko; Lambson, Bronwen E.; Manamela, Nelia; Ntuli, Noxolo; Kgagudi, Prudence; Richardson, Simone, I; Mohale, Thabo; Khumalo, Zamantungwa T.; Wolter, Nicole; Moore, Penny L.; von Gottberg, Anne; Bhiman, Jinal N.] Natl Hlth Lab Serv NHLS, Natl Inst Communicable Dis NICD, ZA-2131 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Scheepers, Cathrine; Lambson, Bronwen E.; Manamela, Nelia; Kgagudi, Prudence; Richardson, Simone, I; Moore, Penny L.] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Pathol, SA MRC Antibody Immun Res Unit, ZA-2132 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Tegally, Houriiyah; Wilkinson, Eduan; San, James Emmanuel; Giandhari, Jennifer; Pillay, Sureshnee; Ramphal, Upasana; Naidoo, Yeshnee; Lessells, Richard; de Oliveira, Tulio] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Nelson R Mandela Sch Med, KwaZulu Natal Res Innovat & Sequencing Platform K, ZA-4001 Durban, South Africa; [Tegally, Houriiyah; Wilkinson, Eduan; San, James Emmanuel; Naidoo, Yeshnee; de Oliveira, Tulio] Stellenbosch Univ, Ctr Epidem Response & Innovat CERI, Sch Data Sci & Computat Thinking, ZA-7600 Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Martin, Darren P.; Williamson, Carolyn; Hsiao, Nei-yuan; Moore, Penny L.] Univ Cape Town, Inst Infect Dis & Mol Med, ZA-7925 Cape Town, South Africa; [Cele, Sandile; Sigal, Alex] Africa Hlth Res Inst, ZA-4001 Durban, South Africa; [Cele, Sandile; Mlisana, Koleka; Sigal, Alex] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Lab Med & Med Sci, ZA-4041 Durban, South Africa; [Khumalo, Zamantungwa T.] Univ Pretoria, Fac Vet Sci, Dept Vet Trop Dis, ZA-0110 Onderstepoort, South Africa; [Kwatra, Gaurav; Madhi, Shabir A.; Baillie, Vicky] Univ Witwatersrand, South African Med Res Council, Vaccines & Infect Dis Analyt Res Unit, ZA-2000 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Kwatra, Gaurav] Christian Med Coll & Hosp, Dept Clin Microbiol, Vellore 632004, Tamil Nadu, India; [Gray, Glenda] South African Med Res Council, ZA-7505 Cape Town, South Africa; [Bekker, Linda-Gail] Desmond Tutu HIV Ctr, ZA-7925 Cape Town, South Africa; [Van Voorhis, Wesley C.] Univ Washington, Ctr Emerging & Reemerging Infect Dis CERID, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Treurnicht, Florette K.; Mlisana, Koleka; Williamson, Carolyn; Hsiao, Nei-yuan; Msomi, Nokukhanya; Preiser, Wolfgang; Makatini, Zinhle] Natl Hlth Lab Serv NHLS, ZA-2131 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Treurnicht, Florette K.; Wolter, Nicole; Makatini, Zinhle; von Gottberg, Anne; Bhiman, Jinal N.] Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Venter, Marietjie] Univ Pretoria, Fac Hlth, Dept Med Virol, Zoonot Arbo & Resp Virus Res Programme, ZA-0031 Gezina, South Africa; [Mlisana, Koleka] Univ Witwatersrand, Clin Microbiol & Infect Dis Unit, Faulty Hlth Sci, ZA-2132 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Sigal, Alex] Max Planck Inst Infect Biol, D-10117 Berlin, Germany; [Williamson, Carolyn; Hsiao, Nei-yuan] Wellcome Ctr Infect Dis Res Africa CIDRI Africa, ZA-7925 Cape Town, South Africa; [Msomi, Nokukhanya] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Discipline Virol, ZA-4041 Durban, South Africa; [Maponga, Tongai; Preiser, Wolfgang] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Div Med Virol, ZA-7602 Cape Town, South Africa; [Moore, Penny L.] Ctr AIDS Programme Res South Africa CAPRISA, ZA-4013 Kwa Zulu, South Africa; [von Gottberg, Anne] Univ Cape Town, Fac Hlth Sci, ZA-7935 Cape Town, South Africa	National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD); National Health Laboratory Service; University of Witwatersrand; University of Kwazulu Natal; Stellenbosch University; University of Cape Town; Africa Health Research Institute; University of Kwazulu Natal; University of Pretoria; South African Medical Research Council; University of Witwatersrand; Christian Medical College & Hospital (CMCH) Vellore; South African Medical Research Council; University of Washington; University of Washington Seattle; National Health Laboratory Service; University of Witwatersrand; University of Pretoria; University of Witwatersrand; Max Planck Society; University of Kwazulu Natal; Stellenbosch University; University of Cape Town	Bhiman, JN (corresponding author), Natl Hlth Lab Serv NHLS, Natl Inst Communicable Dis NICD, ZA-2131 Johannesburg, South Africa.; Bhiman, JN (corresponding author), Univ Witwatersrand, Fac Hlth Sci, ZA-2193 Johannesburg, South Africa.	jinalb@nicd.ac.za	Preiser, Wolfgang/J-4875-2016; Khumalo, Zamantungwa Thobeka Happiness/GRJ-1954-2022; Richardson, Simone/AAD-9767-2022; Ismail, Arshad/B-8552-2019; Scheepers, Cathrine/ABC-9229-2021; Martin, Darren/ABE-3614-2021; Maponga, Tongai/AAL-4487-2021; Msomi, Nokukhanya/HNI-2111-2023; Ramphal, Upasana/JAX-2844-2023; Wibmer, Constantinos Kurt/AAH-8669-2019; Venter, Marietjie/P-9604-2016	Preiser, Wolfgang/0000-0002-0254-7910; Richardson, Simone/0000-0001-7678-2609; Ismail, Arshad/0000-0003-4672-5915; Msomi, Nokukhanya/0000-0002-0610-6100; Ramphal, Upasana/0000-0002-2441-3868; Cele, Sandile/0000-0002-0905-7164; Mnguni, Anele/0000-0002-1854-5573; von Gottberg, Anne/0000-0002-0243-7455; Moore, Penelope Linda/0000-0001-8719-4028; TREURNICHT, FLORETTE KATHLEEN/0000-0002-0853-8011; Khumalo, Zamantungwa Thobeka Happiness/0000-0002-7923-5077; Venter, Marietjie/0000-0003-2696-824X; Everatt, Josie/0000-0002-0373-2093; de Oliveira, Tulio/0000-0002-3027-5254; Amoako, Daniel Gyamfi/0000-0003-3551-3458; Gray, Glenda E./0000-0003-4649-1477; Wolter, Nicole/0000-0002-9526-0133; Giandhari, Jennifer/0000-0002-2944-4583; Manamela, Nelia Phuti/0000-0002-2792-4815	Strategic Health Innovation Partnerships Unit of the South African Medical Research Council; South African Department of Science and Innovation; South African National Department of Health; National Institute for Communicable Diseases of the National Health Laboratory Service; United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [5 U01IP001048-05-00]; African Society of Laboratory Medicine (ASLM); Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through a sub-award from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation [INV-018978]; UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office and Wellcome [221003/Z/20/Z]; South African Medical Research Council [76756]; UK Department of Health and Social Care; SEQAFRICA project; German Federal Ministry of Education and Research [01KA1606]; Robert Koch Institute for COVID19; Bill and Melinda Gates award [INV-018944]; National Institutes of Health [R01 AI138546, U01 AI151698]; South African Medical Research Council; Department of Science and Innovation; Wellcome Trust [222574/Z/21/Z]; EDCTP (RADIATES Consortium) by the European Union [RIA2020EF-3030]; South African Research Chairs Initiative of the Department of Science and Innovation; NRF [98341]; Strategic Health Innovations Program of the SAMRC; Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation [INV-018978] Funding Source: Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation	Strategic Health Innovation Partnerships Unit of the South African Medical Research Council(South Africa Medical Research Council (SAMRC)); South African Department of Science and Innovation; South African National Department of Health; National Institute for Communicable Diseases of the National Health Laboratory Service; United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(United States Department of Health & Human ServicesCenters for Disease Control & Prevention - USA); African Society of Laboratory Medicine (ASLM); Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through a sub-award from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office and Wellcome(Wellcome Trust); South African Medical Research Council(South African Medical Research CouncilUK Research & Innovation (UKRI)Medical Research Council UK (MRC)South Africa Medical Research Council (SAMRC)); UK Department of Health and Social Care; SEQAFRICA project; German Federal Ministry of Education and Research(Federal Ministry of Education & Research (BMBF)); Robert Koch Institute for COVID19; Bill and Melinda Gates award; National Institutes of Health(United States Department of Health & Human ServicesNational Institutes of Health (NIH) - USA); South African Medical Research Council(South African Medical Research CouncilUK Research & Innovation (UKRI)Medical Research Council UK (MRC)South Africa Medical Research Council (SAMRC)); Department of Science and Innovation; Wellcome Trust(Wellcome Trust); EDCTP (RADIATES Consortium) by the European Union; South African Research Chairs Initiative of the Department of Science and Innovation; NRF; Strategic Health Innovations Program of the SAMRC(South Africa Medical Research Council (SAMRC)); Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation(Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation)	We acknowledge additional NGS-SA members: Adriano Mendes, Allison Glass, Amy Strydom, Arash Iranzadeh, Bulelani Manene, Cheryl Cohen, Deelan Doolabh, Derek Tshiabuila, Diana Hardie, Dominique Goadhals, Gert van Zyl, Innocent Madau, Kamela Mahlakwane, Kathleen Subramoney, Kruger Marais, Linda de Gouveia, Lynn Tyers, Michaela Davids, Noluthando Duma, Rageema Joseph, Yajna Ramphal, Upasana Ramphal, Sibongile Walaza, Simnikiwe Mayaphi, Stephen Korsman, Susan Engelbrecht, Tania Stander, Terry Marshall, Zinhle Makatini. We thank Clare Cutland and Anthonet Koen from the South African Medical Research Council Vaccines and Infectious Diseases Analytics Research Unit for providing the AZD1222 samples. We acknowledge Sasha W. Tiles for the provision of Pfizer plasma samples for the United World Antivirus Research Network (UWARN). The following reagent was obtained through the NIH HIV Reagent Program, Division of AIDS, NIAID, NIH: Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 (HIV-1) NL4-3.Env Vpr Luciferase Reporter Vector (pNL4-3.Luc.R-E-), ARP-3418, contributed by Dr. Nathaniel Landau and Aaron Diamond. We thank our colleagues at both private and public testing laboratories, who submit samples for SARS-CoV-2 sequencing despite numerous challenges. We would like to acknowledge the teams within the National Institute for Communicable Diseases Centre for Respiratory Diseases and Meningitis, Sequencing Core Facility and Centre for HIV and STIs. We thank Hyrax Biosciences for the use of their Exatype platform, Bridge-the-Gap and the Cape Town HVTN Immunology Laboratory. In addition we would like to thank the originating and submitting laboratories (listed in Supplementary Table 2) for providing information regarding travel history of International C.1.2 samples. The Network for Genomic Surveillance South Africa (NGS-SA) is supported by the Strategic Health Innovation Partnerships Unit of the South African Medical Research Council, with funds received from the South African Department of Science and Innovation. Sequencing activities for the different sequencing hubs were provided by a conditional grant from the South African National Department of Health as part of the emergency COVID-19 response, a cooperative agreement between the National Institute for Communicable Diseases of the National Health Laboratory Service and the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (grant number 5 U01IP001048-05-00); the African Society of Laboratory Medicine (ASLM) and Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through a sub-award from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation grant number INV-018978; the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office and Wellcome (Grant no 221003/Z/20/Z); the South African Medical Research Council (Reference number SHIPNCD 76756); the UK Department of Health and Social Care and managed by the Fleming Fund and performed under the auspices of the SEQAFRICA project; German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF; grant number 01KA1606; and G7 collaboration grant with the Robert Koch Institute for COVID19) for the African Network for Improved Diagnostics, Epidemiology and Management of common infectious Agents (ANDEMIA). This study was supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates award INV-018944 (A.S.), National Institutes of Health award R01 AI138546 (A.S.), South African Medical Research Council awards (A.S., T.dO., and P.L.M.) and National Institutes of Health U01 AI151698 for the United World Antivirus Research Network (UWARN) (W.V.V.).; Hyrax Biosciences' Exatype platform was supported by the South African Medical Research Council with funds received from the Department of Science and Innovation. The content and findings reported/illustrated are the sole deduction, view and responsibility of the researcher and do not reflect the official position and sentiments of the SAMRC or the Department of Science and Innovation. S.I.R. is a L'Oreal/UNESCO Women in Science South African Young Talents awardee. D.P.M. and C.W. were supported by the Wellcome Trust (222574/Z/21/Z). C.W. and J.N.B. are funded by the EDCTP (RADIATES Consortium; RIA2020EF-3030 as part of the EDCTP2 programme supported by the European Union). P.L.M. is supported by the South African Research Chairs Initiative of the Department of Science and Innovation and the NRF (Grant No 98341) and the Strategic Health Innovations Program of the SAMRC. The funders had no role in study design, data collection, and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.		37	16	16	1	8	NATURE PORTFOLIO	BERLIN	HEIDELBERGER PLATZ 3, BERLIN, 14197, GERMANY		2041-1723		NAT COMMUN	Nat. Commun.	APR 8	2022	13	1							1976	10.1038/s41467-022-29579-9	http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-29579-9			9	Multidisciplinary Sciences	Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)	Science & Technology - Other Topics	0L5FI	35396511	gold, Green Published			2024-01-21	WOS:000781498700012
